---
title: On-Campus Events 10/13-10/22
author: Staff
type: post
date: 2010-10-14T18:22:12+00:00
url: /2010/10/14/on-campus-events-1013-1022/
categories:
  - Events

---
**Flu Clinic
  
Wednesday, October 13
  
1:00pm-6:00pm, GCC-BC**

The college is once again offering flu shots free to Reed faculty, staff and students. The 2010-2011 vaccine provides protection against A/H1N1 (pandemic) influenza and two other influenza viruses, influenza A/H3N2 and influenza B. It will not prevent illness caused by other viruses. The vaccine takes up to 2 weeks for protection to develop after the shot. Protection lasts about a year.

**Portland Gay Men’s Chorus: Burlesque!
  
Saturday, October 16
  
8:00pm, Kaul Auditorium**

An adults-only evening of entertainment from the chorus’ Roaring Twenties cabaret is billed as a brassy good time! Tickets: 503/226-2588 or online. Reed students may purchase tickets for $5, five minutes prior to the show. Must show Reed ID.

**Portland Baroque Orchestra: Mozart, Haydn
  
Sunday, October 17
  
3:00pm, Kaul Auditorium**

W.A. Mozart: Sinfonia Concertante for violin and viola, K. 364 and F.J. Haydn: Symphony No. 60 “Il Distratto.” Tickets: $16–42; 503/205-0715 or online. Reed students may purchase tickets for $5, five minutes prior to the show. Must show Reed ID.

**Alternative Spring Break: Free Geek
  
Tuesday, October 19
  
10:30am-3:30pm**

Spend a shift working at Free Geek, a nonprofit that refurbishes technology to provide computers, education and job skills in exchange for community service for those in need. Volunteers will contribute through working in the recycling area, and will finish the day with a tour of Free Geek. Hearty lunch provided by SEEDS. Sign up by emailing Fawn at [&#x73;&#x65;&#x65;&#x64;&#x73;&#x40;<span class="oe_displaynone">null</span>&#x72;&#x65;&#x65;&#x64;&#x2e;&#x65;&#x64;&#x75;][1].

**Alternative Spring Break: Human Solutions
  
Tuesday, October 20
  
Time TBA**

Help open 60 new emergency shelter beds!! Human Solutions is an organization that works to eliminate barriers to escaping poverty through emergency family shelter, job training, affordable housing, eviction prevention, and emergency household assistance. Volunteers will help prepare the Homeless Families Warming Center for it’s re-opening. Hearty lunch provided by SEEDS. Sign up by emailing Fawn at [&#x73;&#x65;&#x65;&#x64;&#x73;&#x40;<span class="oe_displaynone">null</span>&#x72;&#x65;&#x65;&#x64;&#x2e;&#x65;&#x64;&#x75;][1].

**Latin American Film Festival with ISS
  
Wednesday, October 20
  
4:45 PM, leaving from campus**

Join International Student Services for a trip to the Latin American Film Festival here in Portland. We will be taking the lucky winners of the lottery to see Leo’s Room (El Cuarto de Leo), a film from Uruguay, on Wednesday, October 20th. The film begins at 5:30pm, and we will be leaving from campus at 4:45pm. Light snacks at the theater will be provided. Sign up for the lottery by 5pm on Friday, October 15th at the sign-up sheet outside the ISS office in GCC 103. This lottery is open to all of the Reed community.

**Alternative Spring Break: Project Grow
  
Friday, October 22
  
10:00am-3:00pm**

Project Grow is a radical community supported arts and agriculture project for adults with developmental disabilities. Volunteers will be working with the artists on, “The Best Haunted House Ever” at Project Grow’s North Portland farm. Hearty lunch provided by SEEDS. Sign up by emailing Fawn at [&#x73;&#x65;&#x65;&#x64;&#x73;&#x40;<span class="oe_displaynone">null</span>&#x72;&#x65;&#x65;&#x64;&#x2e;&#x65;&#x64;&#x75;][1].

 [1]: mailto:&#x73;&#x65;&#x65;&#x64;&#x73;&#x40;&#x72;&#x65;&#x65;&#x64;&#x2e;&#x65;&#x64;&#x75;