---
title: On-Campus Events, 10/28-11/03
author: Staff
type: post
date: 2010-10-28T18:13:31+00:00
url: /2010/10/28/on-campus-events-1028-1103/
categories:
  - Events

---
**Black History: An Origin Story**
  
**Tuesday, November 2
  
7:00pm, Vollum 110**

The Black Student Union has teamed up with the Asian SU, Latino SU, and Native American SU to create a DIY ALANA (African, Latino, Asian, and Native American) Studies program.  During our first session Margot Minardi will present a lecture/discussion entitled: &#8220;Black History: An Origin Story&#8221;.  It will take place on Tuesday November 2nd, 7pm in Vollum 110.  Reception following with food and drink provided.  Optional pre-reading available in the Student Center. All are welcome.

**Oaks Bottom Wildlife Refuge One-Day Service Project
  
Saturday, October 30
  
9:00am-1:00pm, Off-Campus**

Halloween is just around the corner, and what better way to invoke the spooky and celebratory vibe of the season than by playing in the dirt?! On October 30th, 9am-1pm, join SEEDS for a morning of planting native trees and shrubs at Oaks Bottom, followed by a hearty lunch. We will be helping with landscaping to protect the tadpole pond from avid amphibian watchers in and other efforts to help restore what was once a medical waste dumping ground. Sound exciting (exhilarating? terrifying?!)? Email [Emily Crotteau][1] with questions or to sign up.

Costumes not required. We also need a driver, so please let Emily know if you are interested!

**Student Print Shoppe Training
  
Saturday, October 29
  
12:00pm, GCC-31**

Want to learn how to print your own shirts and get access to Reed&#8217;s screen printing shop?  Come to training this Saturday 10/29 at 12p, in the Print Shoppe (GCC 31). Email [&#x64;&#x6c;&#x6f;&#x75;&#x74;&#x65;&#x79;&#x40;<span class="oe_displaynone">null</span>&#x72;&#x65;&#x65;&#x64;&#x2e;&#x65;&#x64;&#x75;][2] with any questions.

**The HCC Presents: Brawl & Brownies
  
Friday, October 29
  
3:00pm-5:00pm, Ping Pong Room**

Handling Controllers Collaboratively (or &#8220;the HCC&#8221;), Reed&#8217;s videogame kollektiv, will be back in the Ping Pong Room THIS FRIDAY from 3-5 p.m. for more videogames and, of course, more deliciousness. Back by popular demand, Super Smash Bros. Brawl will be served up alongside some homemade brownies. What could be better than falcon punching your best friend with a face full of chocolate?!

 [1]: mailto:&#x65;&#x6d;&#x63;&#x72;&#x6f;&#x74;&#x74;&#x65;&#x40;&#x72;&#x65;&#x65;&#x64;&#x2e;&#x65;&#x64;&#x75;
 [2]: mailto:&#x64;&#x6c;&#x6f;&#x75;&#x74;&#x65;&#x79;&#x40;&#x72;&#x65;&#x65;&#x64;&#x2e;&#x65;&#x64;&#x75;