---
title: 'An “Honor Process” that Fails the Honor Principle: What a Senior Didn’t Know'
author: Staff
type: post
date: 2011-04-14T19:18:20+00:00
url: /2011/04/14/730/
categories:
  - Opinion
tags:
  - honor principle
  - rape
  - sexual assault

---
Until recent conversations with a significant number of Reedies, I hadn’t considered sexual assault to be a serious problem at Reed. Why?  Because I did not know. I’m not on J-Board or Honor Council. I am a regular thesising senior who has (albeit naively) assumed Reed to be an exceptionally safe place where students act in alignment with the fact that we are fundamentally and inherently bound, in joining this community, to hold the most basic level of respect for those around us.  Regrettably, I’ve been proven wrong.

Through open, candid discussion with mobilizing groups of students, parents and alumni (going back 30 years) in response to these issues, I now realize that the Honor Process over-privileges the privacy and confidentiality of those who have been proven guilty of sexual assault by J-Board—compromising our safety by denying access to what should be public knowledge under the Honor Principle (and incidentally, the Department of Education).

Sexual assault on campus should not be a matter of rumors or hearsay, yet this is what the Honor Process encourages.  The way sexual assault is currently handled at Reed is itself a direct violation of the Honor Principle.

I am not writing as a feminist (as sexual assault is not a strictly “feminist” issue) but as a human being concerned for the security and integrity of her community. Had I not been engaged in these conversations (of which the entire campus deserves to be a part), I wouldn’t have realized the need for immediate intervention, nor would I have even known that my own friends have been personally affected by these crimes.  In short, my ignorance would have continued.

Our administration has failed to respond to this problem justly, responsibly, and honorably, repeatedly breaking promises to students (including the Sexual Assault Task Force) who have continuously proposed avenues for immediate change. Here are the most pressing:

1. Sexual assault cases should not be handled by J-Board—i.e. by other students.  Reed is one of the only institutions in the country where students are granted (and burdened with) this responsibility for which they lack the necessary training and experience.

2. Along these lines, Reed needs to hire an either part or full-time professional sexual assault advocate whose explicit purpose is to immediately and knowledgeably assist victims of sexual crimes.  Currently, there is not a single staff member that has the training or background to competently or impartially advise survivors about their legal options (criminal and civil) or even effectively answer detailed questions about medical processes.

These are simple changes that the Honor Principle requires us to take.  Further, we have the obligation to help our fellow Reedies get the care and treatment they deserve—yet, despite their pleas—have not received.