---
title: 'Science Savvy: The Science Behind the Sides'
author: Staff
type: post
date: 2012-11-24T23:47:48+00:00
url: /2012/11/24/science-savvy-the-science-behind-the-sides/
categories:
  - Left Sidebar
  - Science Savvy

---
_**By Emily Crotteau and Kara Cerveny**_

This week, in honor of the holidays, we’ve cooked up a column about some of the delicious foods that grace the Thanksgiving dinner table. We hope you enjoy these _ala carte_ servings of science.

**Cranberry** (_Oxycoccus vaccinium_) — As you’re biting into a delicious mouthful of turkey slathered with cranberry sauce, give thanks for this humble fruit. This mouth-puckering, antioxidant packed, microbial-fighting fruit is full of friendly chemicals: tannins and flavonoids like proanthocyanidians, anthocyanin, flavonols, and quercetin. Tannins are thought to be anti-adhesives, thwarting bacteria involved in urinary tract infections, while the flavonoids are currently being explored for potential anti-cancer properties. Though the research is still out on whether the cranberry should be dubbed a ‘superfruit’, it certainly won’t hurt to add it to your plate.

**Potato** (_Solanum tuberosum_) — How could something as innocuous as a plate of mashed potatoes be related to deadly nightshade? Quite easily, in fact, and the potato is not alone: potatoes, tomatoes, eggplants, peppers, and tobacco share the _Solanaceae_ family with not only deadly nightshade, but also datura and mandrakes. After thousands of years of cultivation, we’re able to enjoy most domestic nightshades without concern. The potato, however, is the exception: it contains several toxic glycoalkaloids, including solanine and chaconine, which are known to cause death in humans. But don’t let this stop you from piling your plate with mashed potatoes. Cooking at temperatures over 170°C (340°F) destroys the compounds. Phew!

**Pumpkin/Squash** (genus _Cucurbita_) — Whether boiled and mashed or baked into pie, the _Cucurbita_ genus is well represented in the traditional Thanksgiving meal. These vegetables get their orange color from an abundance of the pigment beta-carotene, a healthy hydrocarbon that has been found to have antioxident properties. That’s not the only benefit: beta-carotene is the precursor of vitamin A and is the primary source of this vitamin worldwide. Vitamin A is needed by the eye to synthesize retinal, an important molecule that forms the basis of both low-light and color vision. When retinal interacts with a photon, it undergoes a conformational change that starts a chemical cascade throughout the photoreceptor cell, converting information about the incoming light into an electrochemical signal. Indeed, much of the research covered by Science Savvy this semester depends on the efforts of this molecule!

**Pecan** (_Carya illinoinensis_) **Pie —** It wouldn’t be Thanskgiving without pie, particularly pecan pie. Crunchy pecan halves provide contrast with the sweet and silky custard of the pie, and also pack quite the nutritious punch. Although ~73% of each nut is fat, nearly all of their lipids are mono- and poly-unsaturated fatty acids, known as heart healthy fats. Pecans also contain tocotrienols (vitamin E) and phytosterols. Clinical studies have correlated a diet rich in all three of these chemicals with healthy cholesterol and lipoprotein levels. As a footnote, the nuts aren’t the only part of the pecan tree with salubrious effects. Pecan tree bark contains several flavonol methyl ethers, which have recently been shown to ameliorate hyperglycemia (high blood sugar) in diabetic rats. You might not be able to simply chew a piece of pecan bark to reverse the effects of the sugar in the pie, but you can still be thankful for the beautiful _Carya illinoinensis_.

Although this article is titled “The Science Behind the Sides”, what is Thanksgiving without turkey and cornbread stuffing? To learn some fun facts about these Thanksgiving centerpieces, keep reading.

**Turkey** (_Meleagris gallopavo) — _The centerpiece of most Thanksgiving meals is a turkey, roasted to golden brown perfection. And if you’re like most Americans, you prefer white meat instead of dark. In an effort to meet consumer demand for lots of white meat, the poultry industry has selected and inbred more and more buxom birds, producing turkeys that often have unwieldy body proportions more similar to Barbie<sup>TM</sup>. Inbreeding turkeys has also had unintended consequences, such as making the birds more sensitive to aflatoxin poisoning, a condition that often results in liver cancer. Aflatoxins are fungal byproducts present in nearly all grain- and nut-based foods (like poultry feed) and are even found in trace amounts in products we consume like peanut butter and milk. Recent analysis of the turkey genome reveals that domesticated turkeys (unlike chickens or even you and me) carry mutations in two genes that prevent them from effectively metabolizing aflatoxins, thus predisposing them to aflatoxin-induced cancer. By inspecting the genomic sequences of different wild and heritage breed turkeys, scientists at Utah State University hope to establish breeding programs that will restore some aflatoxin resistance to all turkeys across our nation.

**Corn** (_Zea mays_)** —** At Thanksgiving we enjoy cornbread stuffing, creamed corn, corn pudding, even pop corn (if you’re a friend of Charlie Brown). In the US, most industrially grown corn is genetically modified (GM), and one particular variety of GM corn has been in news lately. Roundup Ready (RR) corn is engineered to resist the herbicide Roundup, which allows farmers to indiscriminately spray their fields, killing all but the RR corn plants. The active ingredient in Roundup inhibits the synthesis of three essential amino acids, tryptophan, tyrosine, and phenylalanine. Although Monsanto, the manufacturer of Roundup, claims that this herbicide and and the RR plants are safe for humans consumption, skeptics remain. One such person is the senior author of a recent study claiming to have found a link between the consumption of RR corn and cancer in rats. With questions swirling around the study’s experimental design and the statistical strength of the evidence (the rats used in the study are known to exhibit a high rate of spontaneous cancer), it’s likely that we’ll be hearing more about RR corn for many Thanksgivings to come.