---
title: Big Black Butterflies
author: Sax M. Cassenter
type: post
date: 2012-02-18T05:01:58+00:00
url: /2012/02/17/big-black-butterflies/
categories:
  - Features
  - Left Sidebar

---
How many ways can you combine three and seven? A musician should not have interpretations that might taint the score s/he is performing. Can the composer express &#8216;red&#8217; to the listener? Did Schoenberg write this piece out of intimidation and a need to set himself aside as _the_ composer of his time? This is a sample of the thoughts espoused in a Chapel conversation with Music professor David Schiff and Cellist Fred Sherry that served as preparation for Friday&#8217;s Reediana Omnibus Musica Philosipha performance of &#8220;Pierrot Lunaire.&#8221;

Entering with only a faint after-image of the Klee painting and an infant notion of twelve-tone, my sound processing muscles were quickly wiped clean of preconception and transported into the roaring nineteen-tens by Schiff&#8217;s half rag-inspired—though my fatigue wished the program had misprinted &#8216;raag&#8217;—composition &#8220;Class of 1915.” Last year&#8217;s klezmergasm had me expecting something a tad different, but Schiff&#8217;s composition was very pleasant and a nice fusion of many early-twentieth century music elements. My exhaustion had me drawing farfetched Woody Allen parallels, but it is unlikely that the tired youth of today would serve as constructive critics of this nostalgic composition.The Ravel blanket next took me and warmed my somnolence through a directed tunnel toward the skilled balance of focus and a passionate nap. The occasional heartstring tugs served as a welcome hushed catharsis for the week&#8217;s trials, but full-on cognizance was granted me during the finale. After having succumbed quasi-consciously to the benign floating vessel traversing the piano trio&#8217;s colorful cosmos, the finale jarred me awake and brought me pulsating through its emotional brilliance. All of the Schoenberg talk had long since been forgotten when the Piano Trio concluded (too abruptly for my regained listening power). During intermission I purchased a burnt coffee, waiting to be blown away by the final bit. Unfortunately, during this waiting period I lapsed again into languor, realizing that &#8220;Pierrot&#8221; would serve as either an alarm clock or a sleepy friend. So spaziert Pierrot im lauen Abend, Aufzusuchen Glück und Abenteuer…

At times I scanned the vampiric &#8216;dark moon butterfly&#8217; stanzas within the program to accompany the twenty-one (7 x 3) movements of this immutable oddity. Most of the duration was spent in a less-than-aware mode, scanning the stage for where to locate the pile of moaning &#8220;Eraserhead&#8221; babies. Have you ever felt like you just wanted to sleep but had accidentally birthed a pile of gristled, fleshy mutant crow fetuses that sometimes served as the prime inspiration for generations of metal music and dystopian novels? I have not either, and this uninformed music review would totally disregard the scattered moments of sublime time-stoppers and the complex forces at work to make &#8220;Pierrot&#8221; come together. Music majors are invited to concoct a more apt analysis.