---
title: Not-So-Simple 600
author: Sammie Massey
type: post
date: 2012-02-10T18:00:52+00:00
url: /2012/02/10/not-so-simple-600/
categories:
  - Front Page
  - News

---
Bon Appetit&#8217;s new Simple 600 menu option offended Reed students who claimed that the meal could upset students with eating disorders. Several students scrawled disapproving remarks on the Simple 600 table advertisements. One Sharpied message read: &#8220;Dear Bon Appetit, your Simple 600 meal could trigger students who have or have had eating disorders.&#8221; Comment cards to Bon Appetit were submitted in smaller numbers. Debby Bridges, general manager of Bon Appetit Management Company at Reed, reported that only two comments cards regarding Simple 600 had been received. Vanessa White, operations manager, tried to set up a meeting with the one student who provided contact information on a comment card, but received no response.

The Simple 600 meal provides caloric information for each component of the dish so that customers can track caloric intake. A variety of options are available for the dish components, which combine to a plate worth 600 calories or less.

Regarding the Simple 600 meal and other decisions, Bridges said Bon Appetit appreciates feedback from students, faculty, and staff. Bon Appetit is also inclined to discuss the specifics of student complaints about Simple 600. Few students have come forward to do so. Bridges said, &#8220;We are happy to sit down and meet with them and talk about it, ideally in person. A face-to-face will be more effective.&#8221; Bridges added that students preferring email or written correspondences about their concerns would be obliged.

One student, who wished to remain anonymous, said she believes Bon Appetit has the best intentions for Simple 600 but that the program &#8220;is asking for criticism because it quantifies nutrients in food by emphasizing calories, which is a potential trigger for those students who currently have eating disorders or have had them in the past. Counting calories is not a healthy way to live, and everyone has different nutrient and calorie necessities.&#8221; She added that &#8220;To advertise a ‘low-calorie’ meal is not the same as offering the option of choosing your own calories if you want to take the time to read all of the nutrition facts.&#8221; As a solution she suggested Bon Appetit &#8220;label meals with their nutritional benefits, such as &#8220;high protein&#8221;, &#8220;high fiber,&#8221; &#8220;good source of omega-3&#8217;s,&#8221; or &#8220;low sodium,&#8221; so that people can chose foods depending on their own dietary needs. Criticism of Simple 600 doesn&#8217;t imply its removal. Zoe Tambling &#8217;15 said, &#8220;I&#8217;d love to see a healthy-eating campaign that is less triggering. We definitely don&#8217;t have to get rid of it altogether.&#8221;

Not everyone has responded negatively to the Simple 600 meal. Mark Harris, executive chef at Bon Appetit, said that the chefs have generally had good responses from students going through the line. The plan was implemented to supply a need requested by students. Harris explained, &#8220;We had a number of students looking for exact nutritional information, which is otherwise very difficult to provide. Usually it&#8217;s the cooks themselves that decide what to cook. We allow our cooks the freedom to create. A lot of it is made from scratch.&#8221; Bridges and Harris noted that this manner of conduct is more like a restaurant than the average cafeteria. Simple 600 fills a unique function by deconstructing a meal into optional components so that customers can select exactly what is on their plates.

Bon Appetit hopes that Simple 600 will provide students with healthy food options. Students who disapprove of the concept can stop at another meal station and set up a meeting with Bon Appetit. Their message board says, &#8220;We want to hear from you&#8230;&#8221; because it is their priority to do so.