---
title: Samhita Mukhopadhyay on “Why Feminism Still Matters”
author: Brent Bailey
type: post
date: 2012-03-30T22:13:04+00:00
url: /2012/03/30/author-on-why-feminism-still-matters/
categories:
  - Front Page
  - News
tags:
  - talk

---
At 6:00 p.m. on March 21st, Samhita Mukhopadhyay delivered a PowerPoint presentation and lecture entitled “Why Feminism Still Matters” in Vollum Lounge, sponsored by the Multicultural Resource Center. Mukhopadhyay is the Executive Editor of feministing.com, an “online community for feminists and their allies,” and the author of a 2011 book, “Outdated: Why Dating Is Ruining Your Love Life.”

Clad in a hooded sweatshirt, she entered, walked to the podium, and addressed the crowd, explaining that she had kept her hood up to show solidarity with the Million Hoodie March, a nationwide protest of the killing of Trayvon Martin, widely believed to have been due to his race. Before beginning the lecture, Mukhopadhyay requested a moment of silence for all those who have been unjustly killed.

Mukhopadhyay opened by explaining her childhood: Raised by Indian immigrants in the suburbs of New York City, she became aware at an early age of the ways women are regularly mistreated and marginalized. From childhood onwards, her brother received preferential treatment. Mukhopadhyay was expected to emulate her mother (who entered into an arranged marriage at 21 and was not allowed to finish college) and grandmother (who was married at age 13, and had nine children in the next ten years). Of her grandmother, Mukhopadhyay said “most of her life was lived in the shadow of others. She was not given the opportunity to tell her story.” As a high-school student, she began to search for ways to tell the stories of women like her grandmother and resist the sexism she experienced at home. This first drew her to the “riot grrl” feminist movement. After a time, however, she came to feel that as a “working-class immigrant woman of color” she was underrepresented in the predominantly white riot grrl scene. This led her to become involved the underground rap community in college, despite the genre’s often-sexist content. Said Mukhopadhyay, “I was deeply inspired by their storytelling, but I was deeply disappointed by their portrayal of women.” The dichotomy between her two movements of choice left her feeling that she belonged in neither, but she found a happy medium when she began taking women’s studies classes. The feminist literature she discovered in college, combined with her longstanding interest in storytelling, inspired her to pursue a career as a writer and speaker.

After explaining how she came to feminism, Mukhopadhyay moved on to her reasons for its continued importance. Using a slideshow, she began with a picture of Ben Roethlisberger, the Pittsburgh Steelers quarterback who has twice been accused of rape. She noted angrily that his crimes have been widely forgotten or blamed upon his victims, who were portrayed in the media as money-hungry, fame-seeking, or “asking for it.” She then moved on to Charlie Sheen, who she said is “characterized as a bad boy gone wild, rather than what he is, which is someone with a major substance abuse problem and a woman-beating problem.” Next was an image of Chris Brown, who, after getting arrested for assaulting then-girlfriend Rihanna in 2009, received an outpouring of support from fans arguing for forgiveness. “I shouldn’t forgive his woman-beating because he does the moonwalk really well,” she said. She then moved an image of Rush Limbaugh and derided Limbaugh’s comments on contraception and Sandra Fluke, a woman who testified in favor of contraception and whom Limbaugh called a “prostitute.” Mukhopadhyay called Limbaugh “the worst person ever.” With well-placed wit (and barely-contained fury), she made it clear that sexist institutions and anti-feminist ideals continue to thrive, especially in the mainstream media.

After outlining why feminism is still necessary, Mukhopadhyay gave examples of people “changing the conversation” by using the power of blogging and social networks. These included a wide variety of movements, such as the campaign to have Betty White host Saturday Night Live, the online outcry against the Susan G. Komen Foundation’s withdrawal of funding for Planned Parenthood, and Mukhopadhyay’s own “Occupy Valentine’s Day,” an anti-Valentine’s day blog opposing the “oppressive structure of how everyone has to love the same way.” She closed the lecture by quoting Desiree Lewis on the internet’s “limitless opportunities for communication,” and appealed to the audience to “not let that opportunity go.” She then engaged in an extended, lively Q&A, in which she gave advice on a number of topics, including how to attract non-group members to activist groups and events (“free beer”) and how and when to avoid getting into arguments over the issues you care about: “The facts are on our side,” she said. “You have to agree with that as long as it’s well-argued.” She received enthusiastic applause, and shared dinner with a number of Reed students afterward.