---
title: 'Letter: There is No Such Thing as Student Body Autonomy'
author: Staff
type: post
date: 2013-04-05T00:38:31+00:00
excerpt: 'Next week there will be a Reed Union discussing the topic of student body autonomy. Lots of things come to mind when anyone discusses student body autonomy. Most often, student body autonomy seems to be brought up in the context of lifestyle choices of the various members of the student body. Shouldn’t we as adult students be allowed to live our lives as we see fit? Perhaps, but I don’t think that is what student body autonomy is at all. In fact, that strikes me to be more related to the personal autonomy of students. Such issues should, to my mind, not be discussed at the union because they fundamentally miss what student autonomy is, properly speaking. '
url: /2013/04/04/letter-there-is-no-such-thing-as-student-body-autonomy/
categories:
  - Front Page
  - Opinion

---
_**By David Azrael ’13**_

Next week there will be a Reed Union discussing the topic of student body autonomy. Lots of things come to mind when anyone discusses student body autonomy. Most often, student body autonomy seems to be brought up in the context of lifestyle choices of the various members of the student body. Shouldn’t we as adult students be allowed to live our lives as we see fit? Perhaps, but I don’t think that is what student body autonomy is at all. In fact, that strikes me to be more related to the personal autonomy of students. Such issues should, to my mind, not be discussed at the union because they fundamentally miss what student autonomy is, properly speaking.

So what is student body autonomy? Student body autonomy is the ways in which the student body, as a group, can govern itself without intrusion from the administration or faculty and under the guidance of the honor principle. Governance of this sort would be broadly defined to include funding and hosting events, appointing and serving on committees, and drafting policies. This definition, and it is surely one among many, would mean that the student body, as we currently exist, is highly autonomous. We do many of these things without intrusion from the faculty and administration. In fact, we do all these things, except for drafting policies, without intrusion from faculty and administration for the most part. Unfortunately, it is my conclusion, in light of the Paideia events, that the student body is not autonomous because our ability to govern ourselves can always be intervened in by the administration. In essence, we, the student body, exist in a generally happy state of domination where our affairs are mostly not disturbed but always have the potential to be disturbed. Therefore, I fundamentally believe that there is no such thing as student body autonomy because if we were autonomous we would not be able to interfered with. Autonomy is a state of full freedom unknown to the student body, as a body. Perhaps not even by students at a disaggregated level.

It is not such a bad thing that we are not autonomous. After all, we coexist with faculty and administrators, and an autonomous student body would surely produce a much different Reed than we know today. It would also likely be unsustainable in many ways as the level of bureaucracy needed to organize and maintain the student body could never be realized by students given students’ constraints and interests. So what should we discuss in lieu of student body autonomy? Something not altogether different, and what I think we really mean to discuss, namely _the role of students at Reed beyond their role as students and as community members_. This of course is a broad topic and it is also a nuanced topic, but it is importantly different from student body autonomy. I believe what students want and really need is to know that their interests are adequately represented to administration and faculty are devising and passing policies. This is not to suggest that there is a uniform student body interest, a general will so to speak, but rather that the interests of students is often not well enough represented in many different processes that affect their lives, as the people who live on campus.

I hope this perspective is considered leading up to the Reed Union. I would hate to see the community have a discussion of something that is both out of reach and potentially undesirable. Although, perhaps there is student body autonomy and I am wrong; however, that is not for me to decide.