---
title: 'Letter: The Hollowing'
author: Staff
type: post
date: 2013-09-14T04:34:05+00:00
url: /2013/09/13/the-hollowing/
categories:
  - Left Sidebar
  - Opinion

---
_**By** **Anonymous**___

I was on the Judicial Board for two years, the most recent of which, as one of the Chairs. During that time, my position enabled me to observe many things about the dynamics of the College, many of which about which I had previously been unaware. In particular, during my Senior year, the year I spent as Chair, I became profoundly upset by what I saw as the gradual, yet steady, erosion of what my entire position was based on: the Honor Principle.

When I applied to be on the Judicial Board at the end of my sophomore year, naïve as I was, I wanted to be involved in meting out some sort of justice. I saw the Honor Principle as a dynamic, ever-shifting guide to how every community member should act – something against which we should measure ourselves, an aspiration to which we should strive. I believed, and still do, that the Honor Principle is much more than the oft-quoted “Don’t be a dick.” For me, it has to do with respect, compassion, and perhaps most importantly, challenging yourself to be better, do more, not rest in comfort. But my definition is no more valid than that of any other community member. This is, after all, what the Admissions Office touts as one of the most “unique” aspects of our community.

My first year on the Board presented few challenges to the Honor Principle writ large. As a regular member of the Board, I heard cases – often tremendously difficult to process and decide – and began to learn what a struggle judging peers and making decisions based on an Honor Principle is. Though I became increasingly disillusioned and stressed, I rarely felt as though the types of cases I was hearing were unwarranted.

But gradually I began to see a change. This change occurred most bluntly during the year I was Chair, the year in which I was most immersed in the bureaucratic workings of the system of which I was involved, but had never previously seen: the Honor Process. Surely you have heard this term. It’s everywhere. You are urged to engage with it, have dialogues about it, mediate your issues and be a part of its complex, though rewarding processes. But where does this term come from? Why has it replaced, or become synonymous with, the Honor Principle?

During my time as Chair, I began to see where exactly this new phrase came from, and its implications for the broader system of Honor about which I care deeply. Not only did this trouble me, but the new types of cases I was seeing caused me to have serious doubts about what I was doing. I often found myself saying: I did not sign up to sanction students for underage drinking and smoking indoors. I did not sign up to feel as though the system of which I was a part was unfairly employed towards my fellow students.

I don’t need to tell you something is happening at Reed. We all feel a shift, a subtle shifting straining of what was once steady, or at least less prone to topple. There could be many explanations for this omnipresent ghoul’s source: Nü Reed for once and ever finally eroding Olde Reed, C-Divvy’s flight from campus as Kroger assumes his position, general shifts in the way colleges are run around the nation. Some might see this shifting and straining as inevitable, as Reed’s future, as the path towards more dorms and more students, Reed’s simple and unavoidable evolution over time to meet the market’s demands.

Pragmatism and realism rule here now. For most of us, we can’t help but react with a certain fatalism to this feeling of inconsequence, a shrugging of the shoulders and believing things will not get too bad before I graduate, before I donate, before I stop caring. From this perspective, one cares that the Honor Process has replaced the Honor Principle. There’s no point.

But something is happening. And it’s happening fast. My year as Chair enabled me to see this with clarity. There is a hollowing. The Honor Principle is being hollowed, eroded, eviscerated, gutted, disemboweled, warped, mangled, teased, battered, decapitated, and replaced with the Honor Process, that thing that we must always be talking about. But engaging in the Honor Process, honorable dialogue, discussion, conversation, and mediation have all become prerequisites for stagnation, for placation, for pacification. One can say: “We had an honorable dialogue/conversation/mediation about \____,” as a justification for continuing to do things in the way that one wants. If we talked about it, that’s enough because both sides were ostensibly heard, but perhaps not listened to.

But why does this matter? Why should we care? Why does the Honor Principle even matter anymore to a community that is always already critical of it? Why can this not become the last nail in the coffin of a way of community governance that was never successful? Why does it matter that the Honor Process gained such status?

Because if students let it go, letting the Process replace the Principle, and settle for a stagnant definition rather than continually search for new and better ones, others will take up this slack. Others will remove these “Honors” from the realm of student definition and into that of a bureaucratic language that has incredible fixity and parasitic power. It is an incredibly clever jujitsu act. When students loose the grasp of the Honor Principle, of the reigns of the definition that says there is no one definition or that the definition can change, we lose. And we lose big, because the image, the dream, the ideal of the Honor Principle remains with others to fill it, to keep it, to define it, to shackle it to their classification. Honor Principle becomes a void into which the Honor Process can be positioned. A new, static, bureaucratic meaning and ideology can gain the standing of the Principle when no one is looking, simply by employing its familiar vocabulary toward different ends.

The Honor Principle is legitimate in most students’ eyes. It is important to students. It is a general rally cry. It is legible and legitimate to us. But when the definition slips and no one catches it, when this feeling emerges, when we shrug our shoulders, when we are pacified by the Dialogue, there is space for it to be eroded and hollowed and warped and battered and eviscerated. What was once the students is replaced by something that is beneficial to other interests. Honor is reduced to an AOD violation. The Judicial Board becomes a Conduct Officer. Legal herbs become “Unregulated Depressants.” But because students still cling to this ideal, this image, this dream, this Honor Principle, these simulated meanings, these replacements, remain legible to us. We do not notice, or at least not soon enough. We become alienated. We loosen our grip further. We drop, we slip, we graduate. The more the students loosen the more the others can fill the void, create a new definition to that which we hold dear.

Beware the hollowing. Hold firm. Grasp at that which is slipping.