---
title: Students Banned as Tensions Rise
author: David James
type: post
date: 2017-09-06T02:50:39+00:00
url: /2017/09/06/students-banned-as-tensions-rise/
categories:
  - Uncategorized
tags:
  - "Don't Miss"

---
Long standing tensions between student protesters and members of the Hum 110 faculty reached a breaking point late last month as the Class of 2021 first took their seats. On Monday, August 28, the freshman class arrived in Vollum Lecture Hall (VLH) to hear from a panel of three faculty members, Christian Kroll, Jay Dickson, and Lucía Martίnez Valdivia. As is customary, the members of the faculty introduced themselves at the beginning of lecture. After this, three members of student activist group Reedies Against Racism (RAR), Addison Bates, Alex Boyd and Tiffany Chang, stepped up to introduce themselves and discuss their mission to reform the course. Professor Libby Drumm, chair of Hum 110, then approached the microphone and announced, after a short back and forth between Libby and Bates, that due to the interruption they would not be able to hold lecture that morning. Bates, Boyd, and Chang remained in the well after the cancellation and continued to give their prepared introduction until their microphone was cut.

Drumm had met with the student leaders of RAR the afternoon before Monday’s lecture to discuss any protest or actions they had planned. RAR held sit-ins in the well of VLH at every Hum 110 lecture last year in an effort to keep pressuring the faculty to reform the course. It was unclear to the faculty whether or not the sit-ins would continue as they had. RAR leaders informed Drumm that the sit-ins would be continuing and that they were planning on introducing themselves to the first-years after the faculty. Drumm expressed to the students that the faculty would allow the sit-ins to continue but were not in support of the students introducing themselves.

A number of unnamed sources among the faculty have confirmed that Drumm communicated with several of her colleagues prior to the lecture and agreed to cancel it if student protesters spoke during the lecture.

The cancellation sparked a debate throughout the Reed community about the place of dissent in the classroom. An email sent out by senior members of the administration on August 25th encouraged the community to review Reed’s dissent policy. The Dissent Policy holds that dissent at Reed is not “something to be grudgingly tolerated," but, rather, is something to be "actively encouraged.” The policy, however, sets limit on this dissent: "protests or demonstrations shall not be discouraged as long as neither force nor the credible threat of force is used, and so long as the orderly processes of the College are not deliberately obstructed." The faculty have asserted that they have a right to who enters their classroom space.

A number of students, particularly first-years, have raised criticism of the protests. First-year Sicheng Zhong, along with a group of Reed students, drafted a letter of dissent expressing their grievances, which has been shared on several Reed Facebook groups: “When a group, through passion for their sincere beliefs, adopts tactics that do not allow for debate, conversation becomes impossible. We believe that RAR’s tactics of protest effectively silence debate, encourage self-censorship, threaten academic freedom, and greatly impede the education of the class of 2021.” Zhong asked “RAR to reconsider their tactics and stop protesting within Vollum during Hum 110 lectures.” This sentiment has been echoed by other freshmen. First-year Pax Lloyd-Burchett, who spoke back to RAR during the pre-lecture argument on Wednesday, told *The Quest,* “What I did was important because people stood up after me and said things—that’s why I’m glad. It wasn’t a safe space.” For many first-years, speaking out gave their class’s opinions equal footing with RAR and the faculty as members of the community.

On Monday, September 4, over a hundred first-years met on the Quad to discuss the Hum protests, following an email sent out by freshman Jagannath Cadambi, inviting the Class of 2021 to “a space exclusively for the class of 2021, involving neither faculty/staff nor any upperclassmen.” The email presented the discussion as a response to a “lack of dialogue \[which\] is not peculiar to our class—\[which\] has, I think, created a culture of silence and polarization in the classes of our sophomores, juniors, and seniors too.” The two-hour discussion saw first-years speaking on various topics: criticism of the RARs protests and “silencing,” disdain for the faculty’s handling of the situation, concerns about first-year’s mental health issues triggered by the protests, and more. According to Yi Liu, “As freshmen, we didn’t really get any information from the RAR or from faculty \[about the protests\]. The discussion gave us the chance to know how other freshmen think—I think that’s the most important, and most valuable thing.”

“It was productive because it gave a space for people to talk without feeling like they were pressured or censored,” said Maggie Slein. Following the discussion, at least two petitions, each with significant support from first-years, have been drafted: besides Zhong’s aforementioned letter to the RAR, Tieran Sweeny-Bender drafted a separate letter of dissent addressed to the Hum faculty, expressing their “disapproval of the faculty’s handling of the Hum 110 protests” and urging an apology from the faculty.

Many question whether or not RAR’s short interruption truly represented an obstruction of the “orderly processes of the college,” and whether the faculty ought to have the degree of control over the classroom expressed by the cancellation. That the interruption of lecture directly forced its cancellation has been, for many, called into question given information of the faculty drawing a line in the sand prior to the lecture. Bates and Boyd expressed disdain for Drumm’s cancellation because of their interruption saying that this unnecessarily cast them as “belligerent and disruptive to the freshmen class.” The August 28 cancellation marks two of three over the course of the last academic year and the weeks beginning this one. Last academic year Marat Grinberg held a lecture on the steps of vollum. GhaneaBassiri also recently held a lecture outside. Drumm’s cancelation is the only instance where a lecture has not occurred at all.

RAR has emphasized in their publications, dialogues, and in conversation with *The Quest*, that the Drumm’s decision to cancel lecture on Monday was not what they wanted, nor intended. In a public statement, RAR organizer Alex Boyd claimed that they had “never intended for lecture to be cancelled” and that they “spoke to Libby Drumm on Sunday afternoon and she knew that was not our intention.” A letter from the Hum faculty appearing in this issue argues that, “when three protesters interrupted the lecture presentation by taking the microphone, \[the boundary of dissent\] was crossed and, therefore, we cancelled the lecture.” The letter qualifies this statement, saying that “while this position was supported by a majority of those teaching in the course, it is important to note that this decision was not unanimous.”

On the morning of Tuesday, August 29, Bates, Boyd, and Chang were informed by Dean of Students Bruce Smith that the three of them had been banned by the faculty from being in VLH during Hum lecture. Hum lectures are traditionally open to all members of the Reed Community, but the faculty determined that the actions of the RAR organizers necessitate their exclusion. A member of the faculty, who will remain anonymous, confirmed to *The Quest* that this decision was voted on by the Hum faculty via email, the result of which was a purported majority. According to Bates, Smith invoked the possibility of both exclusion and police intervention if the three organizers continued to attend Hum lecture, which she says was tacitly acknowledged by several faculty and administrators. Because of this, Bates confirmed that the three students banned would be scaling back their involvement for the time being.

On Wednesday, August 30, as the protesters again occupied the well before lecture began, a shouting match broke out between protesters, faculty, and eventually some in the Class of 2021. The shouting began after Boyd accused the faculty of “not giving a fuck about consent,” to which several members of the faculty responded, “Not true!” The shouting quickly grew on both sides, then included freshmen, some in opposition and some in support. The banned students then left the lecture hall and Professor of English Nathalia King gave her scheduled lecture. Some RAR protesters remained sitting in the well with signs opposing the Hum curriculum.

The scheduled speaker for Friday, September 1, Professor of Religion Kambiz GhaneaBassiri elected not to lecture. GhaneaBassiri invited students to speak with him at his office instead. Enough students came to his office Friday morning that he moved outside and gave his lecture in the grassy space between the library and the ETC. Members of RAR attended the lecture for what they referred to as “informational purposes.” GhaneaBassiri confirmed to them that their presence was not in violation of the ban.

The lecture of Wednesday, September 6, the first since GhaneaBassiri’s impromptu talk, lacked the presence of RAR in the VLH for the first time in many months. Instead RAR provided some of Angela Davis’s thoughts on the political nature of knowledge and encouraged students to think about Davis’s thoughts in tandem with Hum. There is an ongoing communication about the future of Hum protests and there have been several discussions about the issue, some facilitated by RAR and some by faculty and administrators. It is unclear how the tensions surrounding Hum 110 will change and resolve throughout the course of the semester. Much may depend on how the faculty find the alternative syllabus drafted this summer, which is forthcoming. Hopefully conversations around these issues will continue in a way that is most beneficial to the health and safety of the members within the Reed community.
