---
title: 'Black Friday 2010: A Recap'
authors: En-Szu Hu-Van Wright
type: post
date: 2010-12-02T18:43:22+00:00
url: /2010/12/02/black-friday-2010-a-recap/
categories:
  - Opinion

---
Still stuffed from Thanksgiving meals, families across the country rise early on the morning following the celebration of giving thanks for the now-hallowed American tradition known as Black Friday. Sleeping in their cars overnight in parking lots, some consumers even skipped out on family after the Cowboys-Saints game to get an extra edge in catching the best sales first.

Personally, I was in no mood to wake up at such a godforsaken hour during my vacation. As any Reedie would know, extended weekends mean sleeping in: a sacred practice so rare it is to be cherished at every given opportunity. In addition to eating a real home-cooked meal with a real family in a real house and watching real, American football, I was not ready to sacrifice any of these precious luxuries to get up at the crack of dawn, only to be trampled to death or strangled by some crazy soccer mom at Macy’s. I still value my life and my dignity, after all. So I was glad when the family I was staying with decided that bargain-priced jeans were not worth the hassle, and that we would be much happier spending the day in each others’ company: a late brunch, some sightseeing around the Seattle metro area, and lots of great coffee were a much appreciated alternative to parking lot drama and endless checkout lines. I did, however, give in just a little to some of the great sale prices; some handmade socks and mittens were calling my name.

I wasn’t alone in caving into the frenzy of this now nationally acknowledged holiday. This year’s Black Friday was far more successful than last year’s comparably pitiful fare. An estimated 212 million sleepy-eyed Americans heeded the call of steep discount prices and exclusive early-morning price cuts, and each shelled out an average of $365.34 in contribution to an impressive $45 billion in sales for the weekend. And retailers were ready for the crowds: last year, Toys ‘R’ Us opened 90 popup Toys ‘R’ Us Express stores, and this year bumped up their number of temporary shops to a whopping 600 locations.

This year saw a nearly ten percent increase in U.S. households shopping on Black Friday, up to 46% from 2009’s mere 37%. However, only 16.3% of consumers used credit cars this year, down dramatically from last year’s 30.9%. Financial analysts see this as both a positive and negative sign of the times: people are being more cautious with their spending by using cash, check, and debit cards to avoid the post-shopping coma bill shock, but it also means that luxury retailers probably experienced more trouble in making up for the nearly 50 percent decrease in spending. Nonetheless, all retailers ultimately saw an increase in sales from the last Black Friday.

Online retailers wised up and also opened their site doors early Friday (instead of waiting for Cyber Monday) for special discounts, with internet merchant force Amazon.com raking in over 21% of all internet purchases made on Black Friday. Walmart, that all-consuming corporation, also laid claims to over 12 percent of internet sales in addition to the expected massive sales garnered during the national buying holiday.

As was to be expected, there were many horror tales of unruly shoplifters, arms-bearing shoppers, and disagreements between bargain hunters over last remaining sweaters escalating to actual violence. In response, stores heightened security and local police forces stationed officers around shopping centers in the early A.M. to help regulate people traffic, ameliorate disputes, and catch the not-so-rare hooligan making off with an unpaid-for laptop or two.

As I watched harried shoppers, arms laden with heavy shopping bags, dump their purchased goods into already-overflowing trunks, I did feel a small sense of excitement. After all, it’s not the holiday season until people are going bankrupt buying sweaters and candles and George Foreman grills for friends and relatives. Perhaps what made it so great this time around was because I hadn’t felt this spirit in quite a few years. People can finally start to afford those gifts they wanted to get loved ones for the holidays, and as we all know there’s no better feeling than giving a really great gift you know will be well appreciated. So while shoppers looked weary from the early wakeup and tedious Olympic-level endurance shopping, most wore haggard smiles of satisfaction.

All in all, if this year’s Black Friday is any indication, the economic turmoil of the past few years may be reaching its end. Smarter shoppers and increased spending are positive signs in these times, and hopefully mean that change is finally starting to take place. As for me, I’m hoping it means that I get everything on my wish list. I sent it to my parents a week before Black Friday in anticipation for the upcoming price drops, and now all I have to do is wait and see what shows up under the tree. Now _that’s_ what you call smart shopping.