---
title: 'Midterm Election Results: GOP Takes Control of House Majority, Gains Significantly in Senate, Gubernatorial Seats in Most Expensive Midterm Election in American History'
authors: 
  - Staff
type: post
date: 2010-11-04T20:03:57+00:00
excerpt: |
  |
    <p>Today marks the day that Democrats will be wave goodbye to House Speaker  Nancy Pelosi and give themselves a Homeric facepalm as they welcome the  Republican control of the House</p>
url: /2010/11/04/midterm-election-results-gop-takes-control-of-house-majority-gains-significantly-in-senate-gubernatorial-seats-in-most-expensive-midterm-election-in-american-history/
categories:
  - Opinion
tags:
  - elections
  - politics

---
**Zoe Kipping**

Today marks the day that Democrats will be wave goodbye to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and give themselves a Homeric facepalm as they welcome the Republican control of the House, led by a GOP man by the name of John Boehner. Tea-infused Republican wins did not seep as far into the Senate, where Harry Reid of Nevada will retain his position as the Senate Majority Leader. Several races upset Tea Party picks in favor of Democratic incumbents and old-timers, especially along the Northeast and West coasts. Several of the highest-funded Tea Party candidates lost – hard – including former corporate leaders Linda McMahon (World Wrestling Entertainment, no less), Meg Whitman (eBay), and Carly Fiorina (Hewlett-Packard), all who poured their enormous personal finances into the races. Even candidates such as Sharron Angle and Christine O’Donnell, who received enormous monetary pushes from out-of-state interest groups, were defeated in their attempts to buy their way into office. The Midwest, the South, the Southwest, and the Southeast all went strongly Red, where Tea Party candidates in the GOP won seats, giving Wisconsin the first Republican senator in eighteen years with the defeat of third-term Democratic incumbent Russ Feingold; Republican incumbent Governor Jan Brewer will continue terrorizing people of color and undocumented immigrants in conjunction with racist Sheriff Joe Arpeggio and the bustling prison-industrial complex in Arizona; Palin-endorsed candidates such as Marc Rubio (R-Florida) and Paul Rand (R-Kentucky) swept into Senate seats by large margins; and even Tea Party Independent Lisa Murkowski, who lost her bid for the GOP ticket in the primary this summer, is expected to win the Alaskan Senate seat by a wildly successful write-in campaign.

This midterm election is marked in part by what it lacks: 2004 and 2006 midterm elections nation-wide contained state-by-state battles for and against gay marriage and civil unions. LGBT rights, however, are still a matter of voter contestation, with the National Organization for Marriage, the Family Research Council, and the American Family Association sponsoring a successful effort to recall three Iowa state Supreme Court judges who ruled in favor of the legalization of gay marriage.

Candidates came down on opposite sides in support of the legality of marriage equality, with several important victories for liberals: California Attorney General Kamala Harris (the first African-American and woman to accept the post) defeated Prop 8 advocate Steve Cooley, and in the New York gubernatorial race, Andrew Cuomo won against Carl Paladino (who apparently feels disgusted by Gay Pride celebrations, yet attends them and enjoys recounting nude imagery of shiny gay men in explicit detail). In any case, queer incumbent Tammy Baldwin of Wisconsin, Barney Frank of Massachusetts, and Jared Polis of Colorado retained their seats in the House of Representatives, while a few freshmen African-American queers, Marcus Brandon in North Carolina and Mary Washington in Maryland, will join State Houses.

Midterm propositions and amendments grouped around several issues. The right to hunt passed with 89% in South Carolina and 90% in Tennessee. An anti-union, anti-accountability effort to use Secret Ballots in Union Elections passed across the board in Utah (60%), South Dakota (79%), South Carolina (86%), and Arizona (61%). Proposition 19 to legalize marijuana through taxation and regulation for non-minors through failed to pass in California, while similar efforts to legalize the medical use of marijuana failed in South Dakota (61%) and Oregon (57%), though the race in Arizona is deadlocked at fifty-fifty. In Colorado, a majority of voters (70%) rejected a definition of personhood which would attribute full human rights to a fertilized egg. Measures to reject “Obamacare” will go into effect in Arizona, Colorado, and Oklahoma, thereby rejecting mandatory health insurance (but how will we pay for the care of the egg-baby-people??) Oklahoma proclaimed the official language of the state government to be English, while banning the use of Islamic law in state judicial rulings. Arizona ruled out yet another attack, banning the use of Affirmative Action by state public institutions in employment and educational matters—if only racist white female voters correctly self-identified as recipients of Affirmative Action…

While the political landscape appears to be changing due to the influence of the Tea Party and the influx of political spending under Citizens United, we really could have done worse, especially given the lack of Democratic demand for change post-Change-ism of the 2008 presidential election. In a recent panel at Facing Race Conference 2010, former White House environmental advisor Van Jones said that “what we’ve seen in 2010 is about 20% the rise of hatred and 80% the collapse of the politics of hope. The people that we’re so scared about, their numbers went from about 17% to 19%, we call them the Tea Party now, but we used to call them Cranks, just Grumpy People, but they got better marketing and now we’re actually scared of them…We missed our opportunities. They use asymmetrical strategies, a few yelling folks at town halls…and we failed to respond.” Last election night we were proclaiming Post-Racial America and The End to Racial Barriers; tonight we see a Republican gains in response to a few, poorly-organized Angry White Men backed by unlimited corporate sponsorship. Who voted in this midterm election? Older, conservative voters came out in large numbers, 25% voter turnout for voters over age 65 in comparison to just 15% in the presidential election, while the presence of youth voters was negligible: in 2010, 11% of voters were voting for the first time, yesterday, just 3% cast their virgin ballot. Newsweek argues in a November 3, 2010 piece, “The GOP Senior Moment”, that the midterm move to red is not due to the influence of the Tea Party, but the influx of senior voters. So where were we, young voters? We can do better.