---
title: 'Quedline Liveblog: Issue 12'
authors: 
  - questadmin
type: post
date: 2010-12-01T05:30:50+00:00
url: /2010/11/30/500/
categories:
  - Features
  - Infotainment

---
And we&#8217;re back after a two-week hiatus. What&#8217;s happened since then? Well, we (&#8220;we&#8221; being your current Queditors) won the Quest Special Election, ditched making an issue last week, ate turkey, planned a twelve-page issue, then decided that we didn&#8217;t have enough content for a twelve-page issue. So not too much, all things considered. Here we go with the liveblog.

**7:30:** Just got into the office. We&#8217;re down one Ethan today and up one Dana Loutey (former Queditor/current RF Czar), so we&#8217;ll see what we have as far as a Spring/Fall spread goes.

**8:15:** Johnny has arrived. En-Szu still MIA. Dana gave the spread, but we&#8217;re going to tweak it a bit. She&#8217;s given us full creative control since she&#8217;s busy next door. Making t-shirts. For Spring/Fall. Hype hype hype!

**9:00:** EN-SZU, WHERE ARE YOU??

**9:28:** And she&#8217;s arrived. Her excuse? She fell asleep. I give it a 6/10, with one point added for cuteness an effort. (Love you, En-Szu&#8230;)

**10:17:** Johnny&#8217;s still working on the spread. I&#8217;ve been procrastinating finishing my Subgenre of the Week (it&#8217;s electrofunk), so I&#8217;m working on 8. It&#8217;s going to be a long night, folks&#8230;

**11:37:** Cherish Magoon and Rebecca Richman have delivered apple-sauerkraut sandwiches and delicious chocolate cookies! They&#8217;re really good. In other news, we still really haven&#8217;t completed anything. Johnny is almost done with the spread and I&#8217;m still struggling with 8.

**11:47:** D. Loutey came in, didn&#8217;t like our version of the spread very much, so now she&#8217;s working on it. Also, we&#8217;ve been watching YouTube videos of classmate John Bang. Maybe we&#8217;ll make him our masthead next week.

**12:39:**Done with 8! After two hours! Also, Johnny&#8217;s writing a review of _Burlesque_, so we&#8217;re going to have a film page!

**1:50:** Can&#8217;t believe it&#8217;s been an hour since I&#8217;ve last updated. Only because we&#8217;ve gotten so little done since the last entry. All I know is that the _Burlesque_ soundtrack is not helping.

**3:13:** Yup, still here. Fighting a war of attrition. 6 is almost complete. Just found out that we don&#8217;t have any events and announcements for this week, though. Uh oh. Maybe SB Info can help us out&#8230;

**3:41:** En-Szu is proofreading some articles. Still not done with 6. Surprisingly enough, Xandra has stayed with us the entire night. So here&#8217;s your shout out, Xandra.

**3:55:** OH SHIT! Johnny be live bloggin&#8217; up in this bitch. Woot woot. I don&#8217;t actually have anything to say, though, so yeah.

**4:25:** OMGOSH LIVEBLOGGING!!!! &#8211; EnSizzle

**4:27:** My tummy hurts. I have run out of YouTube ideas. &#8211; EnSizzle

**4:35:** IT&#8217;S COUNTRY MUSIC TIME.

**4:38:** Poor Choi has been here since 7 PM yesterday. Reedie of the week? I think so! We should make him an award or something.

**4:50:** We&#8217;re listening to Keith Urban. Choi is less than enthused.

**5:08:** Homestretch! Just finished exporting page 3. Two left to go, and they&#8217;re almost done! GO GO GO

**5:15:** Soclose. Sosososoclose. GO TEAM GO!

**5:17:** I think Johnny is tweaking.

**5:21:** Wheeeeeeere&#8217;s Choi?

**5:23:** WHERE IS CHOI?!

**5:24:** CHOI IS BACK!

**5:27:** I think Johnny has officially lost it. He&#8217;s talking about sentence trees in his brain.

**5:31:** Homorazzi.com &#8211; whutttttt.

**5:32:** WE DONE BITCHEZZZZZ$$$$$$$