---
title: 'Being on Quest Board: Reflections from a Queditor'
authors: En-Szu Hu-Van Wright
type: post
date: 2010-11-04T20:32:48+00:00
url: /2010/11/04/being-on-quest-board-reflections-from-a-queditor/
categories:
  - From the Editors

---
When I first was asked to join Quest Board for this semester last spring, I had no idea what I was really in for. Never did I imagine I would be sacrificing my Tuesday nights to slave over layout until the wee hours of the morning, proceeding to fall asleep at my desk while attempting to do history reading as the sun began to rise outside my window. Never did I envision myself, bleary-eyed, swigging coffee, and struggling to come up with creative synonyms while simultaneously thinking of what song to play next during my office DJ shift (lesson learned: when all else fails, turn to R. Kelly).

Oh yes, being a Queditor has fallen slightly short of glamorous, and that’s not including having to deal with hate mail and put up with fussy school senators hell bent on making our lives that much harder. Putting the Quest online caused an unexpected backlash that resulted in some serious headache and time wasted fending off particularly troublesome students and alumni insistent on leaving our school’s official publication in the technological Neolithic age.

So, no: the Quest has not been all butterflies and rainbows. It’s hard to put out a paper in a school full of students who severely underestimate and under appreciate the amount of work that goes into printing something every week, especially when so few people are actually willing to help out or submit anything. Flaky contributors, anal wannabe-copyeditors sending in snarky weekly corrections via email, and loudmouthed former columnists feeling snubbed and looking to vent are definite hurdles we’ve had to overcome together. And because we’ve never stopped faithfully putting together a paper every week, no matter what, this has easily been one of the most rewarding experiences that I’ve ever had. I have never been so happy and so exhausted. I’ve bonded with my fellow Queditors in ways I hadn’t imagined (listening to Katy Perry’s “Peacock” so many times will do that to you), and it’s indescribably satisfying to play “The Final Countdown” at 3am for a victory dance in celebration of finally being done, done, done! My fellow Queditors have been incredibly inspiring with the amount of dedication and endless optimism they possess, making the process just as fun as it is stressful. We’ve had some incredible contributors—a lot of them freshmen—step up to the plate and really get involved. It’s been pretty fabulous! And seeing Reedies read the Quest every Thursday morning in Commons or out on the patio, makes me proud of the fact that I’m somehow contributing to this great institution.

I’ve gotten to meet some fascinating people, learn some pretty cool things, and give all you readers a piece of my mind on a weekly basis. It’s been a rollercoaster ride so far, and it’s been awesome. I’d do it again… and I am doing it again. Now that we’ve gotten into the swing of things, next semester’s paper will be better than ever. What the Quest needs is consistency in management in order to keep improving, and we’re going to offer you that by running for Quest Board again for the spring semester. If you want to keep the awesome flowing, vote for Wild Wild Quest! And don’t forget to be a part of the paper! This is a community publication, and we need community input to keep it that way. We value your contributions, so keep them coming! We love you, and we love the Quest.

Together, we’re going to make awesome things happen.