---
title: Bookstore Responds to Thefts With New Cameras
authors: 
  - "Jacob Canter"
type: post
date: 2011-10-20T03:32:06+00:00
url: /2011/10/19/bookstore-responds-to-thefts-with-new-cameras/
categories:
  - Front Page
  - News

---
At 1:30pm on Tuesday September 27<sup>th</sup>, a man was arrested by the Portland Police from the Reed College grounds for attempting to steal a textbook from the Reed College Bookstore. The CSOs and Bookstore staff were notified of the possible theft by an anonymous source not one hour before the perpetrator arrived at the scene of the crime (_this news reporter was at the Bookstore when the accused individual arrived at the location and was present for all the events up until the man was taken away by the on guard CSOs. An eyewitness account can be found in the piece next to this article_). This event comes after the Bookstore accrued around $1,500 in loses due to textbook thefts over centennial weekend and comes only two weeks before the Bookstore plans to put six security cameras up in strategic locations to deter future crimes.

The thefts on Tuesday and over this weekend are just two examples of a problem the Bookstore has consistently had to deal with: every year, $20,000-24,000 worth of materials are stolen from the Bookstore, a not-for-profit business that gives jobs to Reed students. While around half of the loses come from textbook thefts, a significant portion comes from seemingly menial shoplifting of moleskins, pens, candy bars and lollipops. While Marianna Mullens, the Bookstore Book Buyer and Reed alumna, doesn’t suspect the weekend thefts to have been committed by Reed students, she admits that much of the theft that occurs at the Bookstore (and during the Homer’s Hut hours) may be from Reed&#8217;s student body: “There are times when I notice one book of each of a course title go missing, and I have a feeling that is not a career criminal. I find the same thing with petty supplies, and food. So I don’t think major theft is students but I wouldn’t say that all theft is not Reed students.”

With the hope primarily of deterring future activities from occurring, Ueli Stadler, the Bookstore manager, indicated that six security cameras would be strategically placed throughout the Bookstore, including the Homer’s Hut section that is open during the evenings. “What we are really after is a deterrent,” he says. “I’m not interested in catching people—yes, catching them is fine if it comes to that, but that’s always just a second-best outcome. The best outcome is for people not to steal.” Because of this hope, Stadler plans to have the main monitor with surveillance information at the register (with a second in his office primarily for maintenance). Furthermore, he does not plan to have constant surveillance of the cameras take place, and suspects that the simple fact that the cameras are present will keep theft at bay. The Bookstore management began the process of putting security cameras in the Bookstore only after they released a survey to the student body and faculty in the Spring of 2010. The survey revealed overwhelming support for the Bookstore putting in security cameras, and Stadler only regrets it has taken this long to finally have the cameras put in place. Stadler expects that within three weeks the cameras will be up and running.

Gary Granger, Reed&#8217;s CSO Director, worked for 15 years at a major retail store in charge of loss prevention, and partially shares Stadler’s optimism in a camera&#8217;s deterrent effects. “You can impact [the amount that is stolen] to a certain extent by how hard it looks [to steal the items]. Not how hard it is, but how hard it looks. So putting up cameras deters some people.” Nonetheless, Granger warns that professional retail thieves will continue to try to steal items even with security cameras up, and requests the student body and Reed community to do its part. “The best way to keep our stuff from being stolen, broken, vandalized, is if the community members who care pay attention and call us [CSOs] as soon as they see something,” he says.

The events from both this weekend and Tuesday are examples of how problematic Bookstore thefts can become. Nearly twenty textbooks went missing over this weekend, which Mullens suspects was only possible if multiple individuals stole textbooks at once, or a single individual came several times. This was not, however, a surprise to Stadler, who remarked that during the centennial celebration, the Bookstore was happy to see many new faces, which gave the shoplifter an easier chance to be missed. At the time of printing, there is no suspicion that the weekend thefts are related to the attempted theft on Tuesday, and both Mullens and Granger commented that there are many people in the Portland area willing to sell stolen textbooks to major store retailers.

_Printed: 9/29/2011_