---
title: A Eulogy
authors: Staff
type: post
date: 2011-02-11T21:00:27+00:00
url: /2011/02/11/a-eulogy/
categories:
  - Features

---
_Reedies Remember Xeno Taylor-Fontana_

On Monday night at sundown a real human connection occurred in the East Orchard of the Reed canyon. Many people gathered to commemorate the loss of an esteemed member of this community, Xeno Taylor-Fontana. This is not an obituary or a summary of the aforementioned event. This is meant as an extension of that very event, the feelings evoked there, and an exploration of the spiritual ramifications of our last minute meeting in the Canyon. Something happened there, a transfer of energy, like a pulsing conduit, despite the chill air, the gusty wind, and the sprinkled rain.

We sat in the orchard amongst the trees, on blankets and folding chairs, or stood in a cluster behind, hugging for warmth and support, everyone circled around a wooden trellis strung with colored Christmas lights and a pile of sawdust hugged around its feet. Marie opened the floor, passed around a handle of Xeno’s preferred brand, Maker’s Mark, said a few words, then passed around an atlas and a sharpie to send to the family. People took turns sharing stories about Xeno, about his mythic adventures riding his bike across South America or cross-country to Reed from upstate New York, or just about how ubiquitously lovable the man was. There were tears, an abundance of sentiment, the inescapable instinctual outpourings of grief. But more uplifting, there was laughter, smiles, and mirth, the saturating cheer of shared recollection and collective spiritual time travel. Together, we moved to far away places where Xeno had shared his smile with us, or an open ear with us, or one of his zany ridiculous feats, like fighting off hordes from the Doyle Owl alone for seven minutes!! Or catching Isaac’s hat one-handed in midair, flying down the Woodstock hill on his bike, only to elegantly ring it back round Isaac’s curly coif before they reached the bottom. Or carrying a girl home on a homemade back seat on his bike, all the way up Woodstock and beyond. Who might possess the capacity for such astounding action? A hero. A mythic man-god. And, while you would be right to point out, “Well, the guy was clearly mortal,” your objection would detract not at all from the elevation of said memories and inevitable accompanying reverence. 

Xeno loved the Piscean, so we discussed his exploits in the culinary arts of rotting fish. (Laughter rippled for the duration of this theme.) Xeno wished he was a bear so that he might rip salmon straight from the stream and eat them raw and wriggly. Could anyone but a latter-day Herakles hold such a burning desire? And yet, he wore no cloak of arrogance, no tsarevich scepter or Achilles’ shield. If the theme of his adventures arose, like biking across the Andes, a simple and amiable and sublimely casual recollection was proffered, “Oh yeah, I’ve done that.” Modest in his luster, the man outshone most of us, and isn’t that what true glory is? Eschewing the pomp and prestige of all the other clown bravados? I for one should like to think so. And apparently many people thought so too, as demonstrated by the large showing on Monday. 

Together, everyone gathered at sundown in the orchard felt something real and human that cannot be adequately expressed in this crude tool of human language. I won’t go so far as to say Xeno’s spirit made an appearance, because who the fuck knows what happens with our spirits or energies or whatever after we die? Whatever it was, certainly it was something, and any sensible person present picked up on it and felt it deep inside of them. This is what life and humanity and especially community are really about: being there, together.

Xeno died young. Far too young. People say that such deaths are a waste – especially deaths where the victims deprive society of the gifts of their existence, the joy and passion incumbent upon their very lives. But Xeno was sick, too sick to be here, and he had to go, so we forgive him that. But god won’t we miss him. And think back and wish he were here to lighten the mood and make things silly like he usually did. Nobody teaches us how to deal with this shit. We don’t live in some Tolstoyan candyland where the art of grieving proves part and parcel our membership in society. We are college students. College students with very little time to grieve and feel out our true feelings. I should hope that we all might choose to find meaning in Xeno’s death and transform it into a thing of power and positive movement, some living residue of passion’s potency: I choose life and to live it, to remember Xeno, and to try, albeit clumsily, to walk on in his gigantic moonsteps. I hope you might too.