---
title: New Reactor Director Brings Dose of New Ideas
author: Ryn Linthicum
type: post
date: 2011-09-28T22:45:12+00:00
url: /2011/09/28/new-reactor-director-brings-dose-of-new-ideas/
categories:
  - Front Page
  - News

---
Equipped with scientific knowledge, enthusiasm, and an intriguing international arrest record, Melinda Krahenbuhl has arrived on campus as the new director of the Reed Research Reactor. During an exhaustive search last spring, which included flying in candidates from as far away as Austria, Krahenbuhl impressed operators with her candor and familiarity with various reactor research possibilities. She began her new position in June, allowing for a smooth transition at the reactor from previous director Stephen Frantz.

Becoming a nuclear reactor director was a complete accident for Krahenbuhl. Her first glimpse of a glowing reactor came when she was completing her doctorate in chemical/nuclear engineering at the University of Utah. “The research I was doing led me to become involved at the University of Utah&#8217;s research reactor,” she explains, “and I eventually became a supervisor, then the director.” She then went on to work in Michigan as director for the Dow Chemical Company TRIGA reactor before joining the staff at Reed.

As the Reed reactor training program begins another year, she is eager to begin working with students. As reactor director, Krahenbuhl&#8217;s main task is ensuring that the Reed TRIGA reactor complies with all state and federal regulations. Acting as a liaison between the college and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, she enables students to focus on operations instead of major paperwork. Her years of experience also allow her to serve as a knowledgeable resource for research ideas. She plans on keeping the world-renowned training program, led this year by student supervisors Kathleen Conahan &#8217;12 and Mike Vignal &#8217;13, untouched. Instead, Krahenbuhl will devote her time towards improving the quantity and quality of scientific research the reactor produces. “I would like to see the reactor further utilized by both students and staff. There are many classes for which the reactor facility could be used. I&#8217;m also trying to explore with faculty members how the reactor can serve to support their current research.” Krahenbuhl also noted that she is open to students not connected with the reactor program approaching her with research ideas.

Krahenbuhl specializes in fission tracking, and her investigation into plutonium dosimetry models has taken her on some interesting adventures. “I was arrested in Russia, in a closed military city I was visiting with a research group. Our visas were not valid, as they hadn&#8217;t been signed by the hotel within the time period allowed. The police demanded $10,000 from each of us, or else we were to be thrown in jail. The US embassy had us plead guilty to the charges, and we wound up being deported.” Thankfully, she is settling into Portland much more smoothly. Krahenbuhl is currently closing on a house, and hopes to work at the reactor until her eventual retirement. Her least favorite aspect of Portland life so far is the city layout. “I keep getting lost driving and wind up on random streets,” she says, laughing.

In the three months since she arrived, Krahenbuhl has already been impressed by Reed. She states she is most excited about “working with such intelligent people.” She feels the students she has interacted with thus far even rival her colleagues in Research and Development at the DOW Chemical Company in terms of intellectual standing. Krahenbuhl also enjoys walking in the canyon. If she were to be bitten by a radioactive squirrel during a jaunt, her desired superpower would be “to be able to spend luck.”

The Reed Research Reactor is certainly lucky to have such an experienced and dedicated new director. “Once, when I was a student,” Krahenbuhl recalls, “My reactor director once came over to look at our core. He had a huge pair of binoculars, and I watched in horror as one of the big lenses fell in the pool and floated majestically down to roll underneath our core. He turned and looked at us, said &#8216;I think my work here is done&#8217; and left the students to deal with it. I guess I can just do that now,” she jokes, smiling. In all seriousness, so far Krahenbuhl has made an overall positive impression on the students she works with. While the returning reactor staff is just beginning to meet her, and as such declines comment, she has already advocated for lower student attendance fees at the annual TRTR conference, helped redesign routine maintenance procedures, and mentored high school summer interns in a variety of experiments. Krahenbuhl will be aided this year by new Reactor Associate Director Reuven Lazarus &#8217;10.

_Printed: 9/8/2011_