---
title: Emeritus Discusses Olde Reed, Buckley
authors: Aaron Smith
type: post
date: 2011-10-23T20:50:07+00:00
url: /2011/10/23/emeritus-discusses-olde-reed-buckley/
categories:
  - News

---
If you look at a campus map, the Center for Advanced Computation looks like an isolated building on the extreme East edge of campus: to its West, the map shows only one path, while, to its East, the map shows nothing. “People may do things that are secret because what they do is of interest to them, but there isn’t any subterfuge,” says Marvin Levich, Emeritus professor of philosophy. He is talking about Richard Crandall, the director of the center and the man who shares the center with him. There is a kind of symbolism in the location of Levich’s office. Like the Center, he stands on the periphery of Reed experience for current students. He teaches a single class of two students, and he has been retired from full-time teaching since 1993. As one of Reed’s oldest living professors, Levich offers an invaluable perspective on Reed in the 20<sup>th</sup> century as the college turns 100.

In the early days of Levich’s tenure at Reed in the 1960s and 1970s, the entire country was undergoing a change in its social and moral order, changes that played out on the Reed campus no less than on the national stage. Levich recalls one instance in which the president of the college (he can’t recall which one) walked into a dorm room to find a man and a woman in the room together. “And that outraged his sensibilities, and he suspended all of the student activities on the campus because of this outrageous fact of a man and a woman being in the same room,” Levich remarks. Though Levich agrees that this is a far cry from what would happen nowadays, he notes that “Even in that period of time the president was responding in an old-fashioned way then.” This aside, Levich remembers Reed in the 20<sup>th</sup> century as a place where students and faculty had debates that, he says, “went on forever on almost any subject.”

Still, although Reed was an academic and liberal utopia, it could only stave off for so long the paranoid politics that predicted a red dawn for America, and the emerging brand of conservatism exemplified in people like US senator Barry Goldwater. It was in this context that Levich agreed to a debate against William Buckley on December 4, 1964. “I felt as if he were Mr. Conservative coming to Portland to chop off another head,” Levich says, remarking that the media portrayed Buckley “as a traveling knight going from city to city.” Though Buckley had a penchant for drowning his opponents in a deluge of facts, Levich carried the debate by pointing out the inconsistencies between Buckley’s persona and his actual statements in books and articles. “One of the major turning points was when I accused him of not being a conservative. I quoted him as saying that conservatives were people of principle who were not going to respond to the emergencies of the moment,” Levich says.

Although Levich’s famous debate with Buckley is a part of Reed and Portland history, as well as his claim to fame at Reed, he sees it as a miniscule event in his time at Reed. He maintains that those who know him best will remember him for the tireless role he took in campus life as a young professor. As the interview ends, he takes off his glasses, leans back in his chair, and notes that “As a person all of whose adult life has been spent at Reed, I feel still quite heavily committed to the principles for which it stands. I think that some of the principles for which it stands may be in greater jeopardy now than they were in the past.”

_Printed: 10/13/2011_