---
title: Turning a Progressively Critical Eye to The Vagina Monologues
authors: Staff
type: post
date: 2011-03-31T19:31:44+00:00
url: /2011/03/31/turning-a-progressively-critical-eye-to-the-vagina-monologues/
categories:
  - Opinion
tags:
  - theatre
  - vagina monologues

---
On Friday, March 11 and Saturday, March 12, Reedies were treated to two performances of “The Vagina Monologues,” a collection of monologues by Eve Ensler and directed by Audrey June Davidson and Rachel Mossey. The monologues featured women discussing their experiences with sex and sexuality from the perspective of their relationships with their own sexual organs. The monologues ranged from a profoundly unsettling account of repeated rape (“My Vagina Was My Village”), to a hilarious yet compelling ode to the aesthetic and philosophical beauty of the word “cunt” ( “Reclaiming Cunt”), and a moving description of the changes undergone by a mother’s vagina in the process of childbirth with (“I Was There In the Room”). Altogether, they made a powerful case for a more central role for the female genitalia in defining female individual and sexual identity.

However, “The Vagina Monologues” also contained, intentionally or unintentionally, other messages that I believe may not promote such desirable goals. I would like to highlight two aspects of “The Monologues” that I believe advocate somewhat more disagreeable ideals: one, a failure to completely divorce themselves from patriarchal norms, and, for another, an unnecessarily radical overreaction to these norms.

The first aspect of the “Monologues” that I find problematic occurs in the title itself, as well as in the language of many of the monologues. This is the word “vagina.” This word actually refers to the interior element of the female sexual anatomy only. The clitoris, labia, and some other female sexual anatomical structures are not strictly part of the vagina. However, “vagina” is used in the title and throughout the play to denote the entire female sexual anatomy, including these organs. It may be argued that this is a natural thing to do given that the English language commonly uses “vagina” in this way, even if it does so wrongly. However, if we were content to accept language as it is given to us, we would experience none of the delights of challenging these norms so wonderfully imparted by Lizzie Martin and Xandra Klotz in their performances of the monologue “Reclaiming Cunt.” Furthermore, the use of the word “vagina” to denote the entire female genitalia is a problematic perpetuation of patriarchal ways of viewing the female anatomy: because the female genitalia is defined only by the internal element, i.e. the part most relevant to male sexual satisfaction, the female genitalia is relegated to a role of subservience to the male, rather than being something itself worthy of attention. In other words, the patriarchy doesn’t care about organs like the clitoris, so it doesn’t include them in its definition of the female genitalia. I believe that this use of the word “vagina” should be discontinued. If “The Vulvo-Vaginal Monologues” is too cumbersomely medical a name for the play, perhaps a “Cunt” or “Pussy” monologues would be better. The work is, after all, all about removing stigma from female sexuality, so why not imbue the title with the positive reclamation of a wrongfully negatively connotative word, rather than the perpetuation of an oppressive one?

Another problem with “The Vagina Monologues” is that in some cases it tends to draw an equation between female sexual identity and individual identity of females. In the monologue “Because He Liked to Look at It,” a male lover of the narrator’s says “I want to see you” to explicitly mean “I want to view your genitalia in order to appreciate your individual identity.” In the monologue “The Vagina Workshop,” the narrator is told (and comes to agree) that she cannot “lose” her clitoris because it is “me, the essence of me”; she goes on to describe her clitoris as “both the doorbell to the house and the house itself,” and to conclude her monologue with the phrase “my vagina, my vagina, me.” Note that she does not say that she cannot lose her clitoris because it is part of her, but because it is “her.” I believe there are serious problems with this equation of sexual and individual identity. While I agree that identification with one’s own sexuality is in most cases necessary to form an individual identity, I disagree that this identification is sufficient to constitute an individual identity. One defense of the equation of sexual and individual identity may be that since women were for so long forbidden to have a sexual identity, it is necessary to react by reclaiming it. However, I believe that “The Monologues” takes this natural and correct reaction and turns it into an overreaction. It would be ridiculous for a man to say that he “is” his penis or that he “exists” in his ability to ejaculate (I identify much more by my love of music or of political science than by any part of my anatomy), so why should we apply our standards of what makes someone who they are any differently to women? The fact that “The Monologues” equates female sexual identity and individual identity of females represents a contradiction to what I consider to be one of the ideals most central to feminism, and it necessarily implies a neglect of other elements of individual identity. The logical extension of this neglect is a contradiction of the feminist ideal of merit (not gender) -based considerations being the way society evaluates a person.

Whenever there is a progressive theory, cause, or, in this case, play, it is easy to conflate criticism of it from a progressive perspective with criticism of it from a conservative perspective. With this in mind, I would like to make clear that I consider myself a feminist, that I hold dear the same underlying ideals that I believe “The Vagina Monologues” and its producers do (even if I disagree with some of their methods of advocating those ideals), and that overall, I found Reed’s 2011 production of “The Vagina Monologues” to be fantastic. However, I do not think that the laudability of a production’s goals renders the production immune from criticism. I’d like to end this piece by congratulating everyone involved in the production, and by encouraging you, Dear Reader, whatever your opinion of the play, to donate to the cause it was put on to promote, the Portland Women’s Crisis Line.