---
title: A Response to Manley’s Open Resignation Letter
authors: 
  - Staff
type: post
date: 2011-02-18T20:07:11+00:00
url: /2011/02/18/a-response-to-manleys-open-resignation-letter/
categories:
  - Opinion
tags:
  - crime
  - rape
  - reed college
  - sexual assault

---
“Isabel is a hero,” reads one of the comments on post I made on Facebook of last week’s “Open Letter to the Reed Community.”  From that comment thread and several recent discussions with other Reedies, I am confident in saying that for many students that article hit right on the mark in describing the serious shortcomings in Reed’s current system for responding to and adjudicating cases of possible sexual harassment and assault.  For, as both a survivor of sexual assault at Reed and friend of many others in the same position, I will be the first to agree that, for all our supposedly progressive leanings, Reed is woefully behind the times in its response to needs of victims in our community.

For example – to add to Isabel’s description of her impression of institutionalized resistance in addressing this problem –I would like to point out that Reed is one of the only schools in the nation that even has students (as opposed to well-trained faculty and staff) hear these types of cases, and, also that, until this semester, J-board members had no official training on the special considerations necessary in dealing with sexual assault cases.  This year they received a short training by Pete Meagher, Associate Dean of Student Services for Student & Campus Life, who has a background in dealing with such issues as sexual and intimate partner violence.

It lasted only a few hours and did not even touch on such issues as typical behavioral responses of victims or the signs of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), or typical patterns of behavior in the people that commit these crimes.  Given how common victim-blaming attitudes are in our culture (even among victims themselves), it is critical that anyone involved in providing support or judicial assistance (at Reed or outside it) thoroughly understand what is myth and what is fact in issues like these.  If they don’t, victims of sexually-based crimes will face unnecessary hurdles in getting the justice they deserve and may even face a process as traumatizing as the assault itself.  In addition, not combating common myths about rape (like who is a “typical” victim and who is “typical” offender), will allow these types of crimes to continue occurring.  A 2005 report by the National Institute of Justice (NIJ) entitled “Sexual Assault on Campus:  What Colleges and Universities Are Doing About It” states that “college women are at higher risk for sexual assault than their non-college-bound peers.”  Sexual assault in our community is a problem we can’t afford to ignore.

And, it is on that note that I would like to answer Isabel’s call to Reedies “to start thinking and communicating about how to respond to the reality of sexual assault on our campus”.  One of the first ways I think for each and every one of us can help to reduce the frequency of these terrible crimes is to educate ourselves both about what exactly sexual assault is and also the ways to help our friends, should one ever find him- or herself in the position as a victim of assault.  Reed’s guidebook defines rape as “is any sexual intercourse (anal, oral or vaginal), however slight, with any object, by a man or a woman, without effective consent” and sexual assault as “is any sexual touching, however slight, with any object, by a man or a woman, without effective consent”.

The guidebook also goes into detail about the definition of sexual harassment and consent, as well as some of the procedures and confidentiality considerations that will be exercised should a victim choose to report.  I hope that everyone in our community will take the time to read through it; the effects of such a simple act could be tremendous.  For, I’ve unfortunately heard way too many stories of victims who told a close friend or friends about a confusing and troubling sexual encounter, only to met with ambivalence on the part of the listener about whether the victim “deserved” to be upset by the recounted event.  Given that (by far) most sexual assaults are perpetrated by people that are known to the victim, and even trusted or liked, it can be surprisingly difficult for someone to acknowledge that an experience that s/he found unsettling, disturbing, or uncomfortable does indeed fall under the definition of assault.  The same NIJ study mentioned above affirms my own experiences; the study mentions that: “counter to widespread stranger-rape myths, in the vast majority of these crimes – between 80 and 90 percent – victim and assailant know each other.  In fact, the more intimate the relationship, the more likely it is for a rape to be completed rather than attempted.  Half of all student victims do not label the incident as ‘rape.’  This is particularly true when no weapon was used, no sign of physical injury is evident, and alcohol was involved – factors commonly associated with campus acquaintance rape.”  Armed with the knowledge of what defines sexual assault, we all can be first responders in getting victims the emotional and even legal support they need.

For further education on how to support victims of assault I suggest the document “A Man’s Guide to Helping a Woman who has Been Raped”, which can be found in PDF format just by Googling the title.  Even though it is targeted at men who know female victims of assault, I found much of the information to be very helpful to readers and victims of any gender.  It covers common reactions of victims in different “stages” following an assault, and, importantly, also what not to do and say to a survivor.  If you already know and want to help a victim, I also encourage you to contact the Portland Women’s Crisis Line and inquire about their support group for friends and family members of victims.  Anyone interested in starting a similar support group on campus should feel free to contact me at [&#x68;&#x65;&#x66;&#x66;&#x72;&#x6f;&#x6e;&#x63;&#x40;<span class="oe_displaynone">null</span>&#x72;&#x65;&#x65;&#x64;&#x2e;&#x65;&#x64;&#x75;][1].

My final suggestion is for survivors to help address the huge discrepancy between the amount of sexual assaults reported in our campus crime statistics and how many actually occur on campus.  Doing so will help everyone in our community understand how common this type of crime is and, consequently, how urgently it needs to the issue needs to be redressed.  (Not to mention to help spur some of our best allies in affecting change – our parents and others who pay for us to attend school here – to get involved.) The statistics for crimes on all college campuses are required to by two federal laws to be published every year; to view Reed’s stats visit [http://web.reed.edu/community\_safety/information/crime/crime\_statistics.html][2]{.broken_link}.  On that page you can see that the number of forcible sexual assaults on campus (non-forcible in this case refers to incest and statutory rape) in 2009 was 3, in 2008 it was just 2, and in 2007 it was 4.  Now, I personally know of enough instances of sexual assault on campus in 2009 to put that number in the double digits.  I know I’m not alone.

One of the reasons for this artificially low number is the unusual process necessary for getting assaults to “count.”  The only way this happens is if at some time the CSOs are contacted and make a report of the incident.  If you instead decide to report through Res Life, Student Services, the Health and Counseling Center, Honor Council, or J-Board, your assault won’t “count.”  Yes, that means even if you file a J-Board case and the defendant is found guilty of committing sexual assault, it will not be counted in the numbers officially released to the public.  I don’t know about you, but I looked at those numbers before I came to Reed, as was pleased to see how low the instances of assault supposedly were.  Unfortunately these did not reflect reality – although it can be changed.  Even if someone was assaulted years ago, they can still report it to the CSOs, even if s/he has no desire to prosecute in any way.  Although this may not be in line with the desires of all survivors, I encourage anyone (including those who have been victims of attempted assault) who has personally gone through one of these crimes and wants to make a change in way they are addressed to start by reporting their experience.

I hope that these suggestions will help to continue the conversation in our community on this important issue and encourages others to come forward with their own suggestions.  I believe we all can contribute to stopping sexual assault at Reed.

 [1]: mailto:&#x68;&#x65;&#x66;&#x66;&#x72;&#x6f;&#x6e;&#x63;&#x40;&#x72;&#x65;&#x65;&#x64;&#x2e;&#x65;&#x64;&#x75;
 [2]: http://web.reed.edu/community_safety/information/crime/crime_statistics.html