---
title: Interview with Vanessa “New Dax” White
author: Staff
type: post
date: 2011-04-28T18:44:32+00:00
url: /2011/04/28/interview-with-vanessa-new-dax-white/
categories:
  - News

---
I’d once heard second-hand information that Dax King, Commons’ former points-man, drives a monster truck. “I followed him home one day, and he was driving a monster truck!” the source assured my friend. Aside from the cartoonish image of a man driving a behemoth with wheels as tall as he himself, the story—factual or not—speaks to the admiration and mythology enveloping the real man. At Commons, where an employee can suddenly shock all of us with a glamorous and fascinating life operating layers beneath the surface of what we see daily (case-in-point: Twinka Thiebauld), Dax had a special reputation. Though there are no lives-of-famous-persons books or tell-all memoirs to his name—I checked—we remember him for his quick swiping hand, his unsurpassed efficiency, and his rallying cry.

It is no surprise, then, that Dax’s successor Vanessa White should be received in a certain way. “When I first came here, people were always saying, ‘So you’re the new Dax.’ But I don’t mind the name. Dax and I are friends and he’s a pretty great guy.” Of course, Dax and ‘New Dax’ are quite different. While Dax, like a cat, tended to weave in and out of lines before suddenly popping up from behind a vacant register, White prefers a more nonchalant approach to interacting with the students. Stylish and collected, White walks the main floor of Commons with an aura of reserve and confidence. Her six years of experience with Bon Appétit stand on full display in the work she does; that this is her first assignment at a college is a testament to her ability to adapt to new situations in her career.

When Dax left Bon Appétit for Intel in Hillsboro, White took his place as operations manager at Reed College, transferring from an altogether different Intel in Hillsboro. She has worked with Bon Appétit for six years, during which time she has worked in Colorado and Hillsboro, and now has been at Reed for less than a month.

The amount that Vanessa has moved about in the last few years is a testament to the popularity of Bon Appétit. Sustainable and eco-friendly dining halls are gaining in popularity among colleges and universities around the world. These dining halls have made it their goal to promote healthy lifestyles and eating habits among their students, reduce their impact on the environment, and maintain a high standard of food quality on their menus. Bon Appétit, which has catered Reed since 1999, buys more than 85% of its food products from within a 150 mile radius; their efforts have earned the company recognition from multiple [food goodness espousing] organizations.

Despite her short time at Reed, White has already fallen in love with the environment. “I am experiencing something truly different in the sense of interaction with customers. Working with students has been enlightening, especially here at Reed, because they truly care and have an interest in the food they eat. I used to work with a bunch of engineers, and they were really boring. They didn’t much care about what we served them.”

Additionally, White is the person who deals directly with Reed student comments, so she is the one who hears your desires for changes to Commons and judges how to best address them. She’s also in charge of the beverage cooler, so she’s a good person to complain to if Commons isn’t meeting your needs.

In addition, during White’s short tenure, Reed’s Commons has been “certified great” by Bon Appétit; this means that Bon appetite has met its pledge to buy cage-free eggs, to buy cuts of meat from farms that treat their animals humanely, to buy organic produce as often as it is available, and to ensure that vegan and vegetarian options are available every meal of every day. According to White, “We were certified last Wednesday and we are very proud of this accomplishment. All of the employees with Bon Appétit have put in a lot of hard work to make Bon Appétit a great experience. This is a big deal for Reed’s branch of Bon Appétit, and especially for Vanessa, who is eager to make her mark on the college. “I’d like to be known for what I’ve done rather than as a successor to Dax,” she said.

But in order to truly assert her identity at this school, she’ll need a catchphrase as compelling as Dax’s old standby, “If you have points I can take you over here!” On creating a call worthy of a successor, White believes that with time, something will “happen organically.” Trying to replicate the magic that was Dax would be pointless. Vanessa is trying to be herself in her role as Reed’s operations manager, and so far is doing a splendid job. Vanessa repeatedly emphasized how much she enjoys interacting with students and I would recommend, from my interactions with her, stopping by and saying hello and letting her know how you think she’s doing.