---
title: Turning a Critical Eye to the Royal Wedding
author: Staff
type: post
date: 2011-04-28T18:18:10+00:00
url: /2011/04/28/turning-a-critical-eye-to-the-royal-wedding/
categories:
  - Features

---
This Friday, I will stumble into my nine o’clock organic chemistry lecture in a haze of sleep deprivation. I will have spent the night watching the most elaborate union to be put on this decade: The marriage of His Royal Highness Prince William of Wales and Kate Middleton. I believe that even as I force my brain to absorb reaction mechanisms, it will have been worth it. “Why should I care about the wedding?” has been the question of most classmates I express excitement to. It is a legitimate question, with many answers. The following are a few reasons why the impending nuptials should matter, even to us Reedies.

The royal wedding has been a topic of much speculation and conversation over the past few months, and will continue to be up until the day itself.  The engagement’s occurrence has brought up many important questions about the position a monarchy should play both in politics and in society. These discussions play a vital role in our ever-developing global society. The wedding invitations themselves serve as a giant political device. Protocol dictates that all ambassadors based in London with whom Britain has good diplomatic relations should be issued an invitation. As such, it is extremely telling that the decision was finally made earlier this week to withhold the previously prepared invitation for Libya’s ambassador. Furthermore, Crown Prince Salman bin Hamad al-Khalifahas turned down his invitation, helping to diffuse the potential for an embarrassing revocation due to Bahrain’s recent crackdown on mainly Shia pro-democracy protestors. Politics are taking center stage even while the world twitters over what designer is making Kate’s gown. If the wedding exposes even a few more citizens to the humanitarian crises going on worldwide, then it is all for the better.

The engagement of William and Kate also showcases an important step towards the destruction of class boundaries. Prince William is, of course, a member of the British Monarchy. However, Kate Middleton comes from a middle class family background. Her parents met working as flight attendants, and her maternal grandparents were laborers and miners. Monarchies have long been criticized for their perceived inability to relate to the populations they rule. With this wedding, a giant leap is being made towards narrowing the giant gap between ruler and populace. The Monarchy controls a vast amount of wealth, territory, and power. By placing some of this power in the hands of a woman who has some personal exposure to troubles affecting less affluent people, the path is laid out for an incredible amount of charitable good to go towards populations and problems that truly need it.

The royal wedding is estimated to have a large impact on the British economy, due to increases in tourism, memorabilia sales, and even television contracts. Thousands of British pounds have already been donated to the charities the couple chose in lieu of a traditional registry. I have resisted the consumerist trend to buy Will & Kate goods. However, in the wee hours of Friday morning, I will be sitting in front of my computer, wearing a tiara, reflecting on the countries that the arriving guests represent and watching the fashion parade. The wedding of Prince William and Kate Middleton will give me a chance to get outside of the Reed bubble mindset in an uplifting, and still enlightening, manner. This is the event of a lifetime, one that we need not all necessarily watch, but we should at least reflect on.