---
title: 'Heroin, Honor & Reed’s Relationship with Portland'
authors: 
  - Staff
type: post
date: 2011-04-07T19:13:35+00:00
url: /2011/04/07/heroin-honor-reeds-relationship-with-portland/
categories:
  - Opinion
tags:
  - aod
  - drugs
  - honor principle
  - portland

---
During the recent Reed Union that was convened to discuss the honor principle, Colin Diver pointed out that Reed College is not an isolated, utopian community in upstate New York.  People laughed, but this statement represents an idea that is crucial to the pursuit of not only a community comprised of honorable individuals, but a community that is itself honorable in relation to the greater setting in which it finds itself. Reed exists within a city, Portland, that is in many ways a bastion of liberal, compassionate government, but that nonetheless is plagued by societal ills such as homelessness, unemployment, and widespread drug abuse. Heroin, in particular, is a perennial problem in Portland. According to a report from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention from July 21, 2000, heroin overdose was “a leading cause of death among men aged 25-54 years” in Multnomah County in 1999. Recent tragedies at Reed indicate that the drug is still prevalent in the Portland area. But that is exactly my point. The existence of heroin at Reed is inevitable, simply because we find ourselves in the middle of a city that is in the throes of a drug epidemic. Therefore, “How do we eradicate heroin use from Reed?” is not a realistic or even particularly useful question. Instead, we must acknowledge that heroin is a part, however undesirable, of the city in which we live, and ask ourselves, “What is the best way to mitigate the harms of this drug that will be present in and around our community, regardless of our best efforts to suppress it, well into the future?” It is only through this rejection of ultimatums in favor of pragmatism that Reed will be able to sustain the ongoing discourse that was cited during the Union, with much justification, as the foundation of an honorable community.

Unfortunately, this discourse is not limited to the proverbial Bubble. The occurrence of drug-related fatalities at Reed invites pressure from external authorities and institutions who wish to impose an ultimatum-oriented drug policy upon us; who would have the administration do away with the honor principle, and all its implications of personal liberty and responsibility, in favor of draconian law enforcement whose sole aim is to imprison drug users. This external pressure often operates under the reasoning that, by allowing its students an unusual degree of autonomy and privacy, the Reed Administration enables them to circumvent laws and, by doing so, becomes a contributing factor to the larger problem of drug addiction and distribution in Portland. This is a pernicious fallacy. Arguments that turn Reed into a scapegoat for widespread problems, such as the drug trade, (certain _Willamette Week_ articles come to mind, as does the campaign to introduce undercover cops at Renn Fayre last year) are red herrings that distract attention away from the greater structural flaws in our society, such as poverty, inadequate education, and homelessness, that are responsible for these problems on a much more fundamental level. After all, it is much easier, politically, to criticize a bunch of pampered, whiny intellectuals with a penchant for hedonism than it is to address pervasive societal inequalities and the systems of power that perpetuate them. In order to behave honorably as a member of a larger community, then, Reed College must be able to defend its principles against external, ideological attacks on the grounds that the attacks themselves prevent the sort of discourse that is necessary to promote honor, safety, and equality not only at Reed, but also in the world at large.

Before I proceed, I would like to clarify two points. First, the possession, use, and distribution of heroin on Reed Campus is intrinsically dishonorable. Heroin is an extraordinarily dangerous and addictive substance that acts as an incredibly destructive force in any community where it exists. I do not advocate tolerance of heroin use, nor do I suggest that Reed should not discipline students who are found in possession of the drug. Rather, I believe that Reed should not compromise its fundamental principles in order to comply with witch-hunts that ignore the root cause of the problem they seek to destroy. Second, Reed’s current AOD policy is far from “draconian.” As a student here, I enjoy a level of personal autonomy that is unheard of at most colleges. As much as I resent the CSOs taking my weed, I appreciate that they do not call the police to haul me off to jail as they would at many other institutions. For, annoying as it is to listen to Mike Brody explain why smoking in the dorms violates the housing contract, it is a hell of a lot easier than having my room searched and then listening to a cop explain when my court date is. The current attitude of relative leniency at Reed is a testament to its ability to withstand the influence of the witch-hunts that I alluded to.

So why write this article, if everything is just peachy? The first reason is that there is a perception among some students that the administration is quietly cracking down on illicit activity with more intensity than in past years, but insisting that it is following the same guiding principles. This perception is justified, at least in part, by scheduled CSO patrols of dorms and by community safety’s insistence on issuing written citations in situations that may have warranted only a verbal warning in the past. While these activities do not exactly constitute martial law, they may be the start of a slippery slope towards a more general constriction of student privacy and autonomy. The second reason is that there is also a perception among some students that this gradual tightening of enforcement is a product, not of the administration’s attempt to serve the best interest of the community, but rather of a misguided attempt to perform public relations damage control in response to drug-related deaths on campus and the ensuing media hysteria. This second perception, regardless of its accuracy or lack thereof, begs difficult questions concerning Reed’s fundamental mission, especially the role of the honor principle and Reed’s relation, as an institution, to the rest of society.

The death of a Reed student by heroin overdose is not something to be taken lightly. Indeed, it necessitates serious, communal introspection and a reevaluation of community norms and procedures. It also represents an ethical exigency to respect the deceased by striving for the most effective way to prevent another death. The aforementioned CDC report on heroin use in Multnomah County says, “Working with police to establish policies that persons reporting or suffering drug overdose are not subject to arrest could increase users’ willingness to seek emergency assistance.” US Attorney Dwight Holton and Multnomah County District Attorney Michael Schrunk’s decision last year to threaten Reed with the removal of financial aid and to publicly announce the presence of undercover police at Renn Fayre is definitely not in keeping with this advice. While Reed may not have been in a legal position to say no to the police presence, the administration also did not publicly condemn the threat as counterproductive to its purported goals. The CDC report goes on to say, “Implementing interventions to decrease heroin and other fatal drug overdoses will require partnerships among a range of groups and programs . . . Planning and implementation should involve heroin users because their knowledge, skills, and social networks can help identify interventions and achieve acceptance of interventions among the drug users at risk for drug overdose.” As a member of a community that is afflicted with a drug problem, Reed has an honorable responsibility to contribute to community discourse, and to defend itself against attacks that harm not only Reed, but the entire city of Portland. Reed College, as a group of individuals but also as a unified institution with core ethical ideals, must decide if it is going to maintain a sane drug policy that focuses on mitigation of harms, or slowly chip away at core principles by reforming Community Safety to appear more “effective” on paper in order to quiet down the yellow journalists, federal prosecutors, and district attorneys of the world.

But perhaps I go too far. It is evident that Colin Diver, Mike Brody, and many, many other administrators, staff, and faculty at Reed care deeply about what this school represents, both to ourselves and to the outside world, and have genuine faith in the value of the honor principle. Obviously, no one wanted the police presence here at Renn Fayre, least of all, I presume, Colin Diver. The power of federal prosecutors and district attorneys is very real, even if they use a preposterous application of a law written to shut down crack houses to back up their attack on a prestigious college. Furthermore, this article has not taken into account everyone’s least favorite subject: money. The unpleasant reality is that public relations do matter and, as unsavory as the connection may be, outside perception of drug use at Reed may tarnish our reputation, which may then tarnish our endowment. Reed maintains a public stance of political neutrality for very good reasons, but to condemn politically motivated attacks that hurt everyone in Portland should not be a partisan issue, but rather an ethical debate.

On that note, I conclude in the spirit of the Reed Union by offering no coherent, codified solution. Instead, the aim of this article is to sustain a discourse that is, and will continue to be, at the heart of the survival of the honor principle. If anything is responsible for the downfall of personal autonomy and responsibility at Reed, it will be either illegal drugs or sexual assault, and I am willing to bet that drugs will be the issue that continues to draw the most external pressure to alter our system of self-governance. But then again, I make no claim to be an authority on public policy, and I certainly have a naïve, simplistic understanding of everything that goes into administrating a college. In short, I do not envy the jobs of the administrators, for they must be quite difficult. So perhaps this article is just another moralizing, idealistic tirade in the pages of _the Quest_. As such, I invite responses from anyone who feels that I have misrepresented or misjudged the college’s situation. But, if my time at Reed has taught me anything, it is that moralizing, idealistic tirades can sometimes be useful, and are a part of what makes this college the beautiful, stimulating place that it is.