---
title: RAW Schedule
authors: Staff
type: post
date: 2011-03-03T20:23:53+00:00
url: /2011/03/03/raw-schedule/
categories:
  - Features
tags:
  - RAW
  - reed arts week

---
**Reed Student Art**

**Alexandra Tatarsky &#8211; _MUSEUM OF THE ROOFTOP_**
  
**Biology Building Roof**
  
Museum of the Rooftop is a non-for-profit museum and incorporeal organization located on top of the L.E. Griffin Memorial Biology Building. Through permanent display of rooftop artifacts, rotating exhibits and daily acts of investigation, Museum of the Rooftop is an ongoing project of devotion to that which approaches and repels the sky.

**Kathleen Aston**
  
**Outside Library**
  
The initial assessment of the assayer is not necessarily that which persists, nor is it all the world can be.While fundamentally constrained, the lay of the land as observed through these scopes can explode into a riotous series of spectacles whose every nuance is made possible by the very physical setting they modify. In this way, the scope view is a representation of the surrounding geography, and the scope itself is a material expression of possibility.

**Alisa Bones &#8211;_Two Psychogeographies: Reed Campus_.**
  
**Café Paradiso**
  
The work consists of two 4’ x 4’ paintings on board. The first painting is a ‘mental map’—a reflection of the artist’s habits and familiarities in regard to the Reed campus upon approaching the project. The second painting is the pictorial documentation of a ‘dérive’, or extended period of time devoted to the exploration of (particularly) unfamiliar areas and aspects of campus that ordinarily remain outside of the artist’s day-to-day habits and patterns.

**Ted Bryan & Andrew Wilhite &#8211; _Broken Wings_**
  
**Biology Building Roof &#8211; Saturday 3/5, 5:30**
  
A performance by Ted Bryan (piano) and Andrew Wilhite (bass). Challenging the distinctions between composition and improvisation, this piece seeks to understand the centric and itinerant tendencies of music and expose how music can be simultaneously explicit and incomplete.

**Camille Charlier & Julia Reagan &#8211; _Labyrinths: A Quest for Sound, Space, and Spirit._**
  
**Front Lawn (Magic Grove)**
  
The capacity of physical space to mediate human interaction and experience is familiar – coffee shops are for casual conversation, clubs for dancing, and temples for praying. This project explores how labyrinths can be used to generate worlds that arbitrate particular kinds of experience. Through space and sound, light, stones, scraps and forgotten belongings we will create a trilogy of labyrinths to envelop their walkers in unique ambiance. The sounds of the labyrinths will be aural maps of the physical spaces – musical pieces composed with the structure of the labyrinth as a basis.

**Nate Flagg**
  
**Library (New Pit) & Outside**
  
Space is a language. Each angle a ream of text, a bay an expanse of breath opening into gesture, the shade on a leaf a trembling glyph. WhereWare is a system of forms that exposes these multidimensional poems in space, a rumination on the vibrant dance of all landscapes.

**The Goat Mountain Ensemble for Astral Projection &#8211; _Cyclotronic Generator_**
  
**Chapel &#8211; Thursday 3/3, 6 PM**
  
The Goat Mountain Ensemble will interpret Melvin Edward Nelson’s works using the language of the stars. Musical universalis, the super-dimensional otoacoustic jazz cosmos will be generated by: Jeff Blum (saxophone), Ted Bryan (electric piano), Matthew Doyle (percussion), Nicole Herr (piano), Matthew Shandorf (guitar), Andrew Wilhite (bass), and Sina Zeytinoglu (saxophone).

**Nick Irvin &#8211; _Additive Unstuck_**
  
**Grey Campus Center &#8211; Room D**
  
A video installation in which three separate projections of red, green and blue light are combined to trace the movements of a human figure through time and space. As a dancer repeatedly recreates a choreographed motion, body and light come together to construct undulating trails of forms and colors that exhibit varying degrees of chromatic abstraction. Through the convergence and divergence of these trails, the variations of each performance are illuminated.

**Arty Johnstone &#8211; _Jersey Shore Shrine: a safe place to worship the True Gods of Hedonism_**
  
**Library (Behind Reference Desk)**
  
Come spend some time in the presence of the icons of fist pumps, fake tans and sexy bodies. Open to guidos and guidettes, believers and non-believers.

**Lacy Lackey**
  
**Café Paradiso**
  
This map of Reed College campus is made with natural and human objects found on the campus itself. The textures of these objects – leaves, dead bees, bits of fabric – bring the geographic representation of Reed to a more alive, narrative-filled version of itself. Reed is alive. The spirit of Reed is the collective spirits of all the lives that live here – people, animals, plants – and what happens in those lives is what makes this place important to everyone and everything connected with it.

**Anna Nielsen and Hazel Rickard &#8211; _A Timely Predecession_**
  
**Begins in Sallyport &#8211; Saturday 3/5, 9 PM**
  
HARK! Please join us under the young moon on the fifth evening of the third month of the two thousand and eleventh year after death. We will congregate under the stone arch to receive a transmission from the beyond. From here, our timely journey begins. UNTO THE GREAT COSMOS: UNFATHOMABLE CELESTIAL BODIES, THE HIGHEST HEIGHTS OF THEIR ATMOSPHERES AND THE DEEPEST DEPTHS OF THEIR CORES. Beware weary traveler, lest your spirit be lost in the darkness.

**Marie Perez**
  
**Wandering**
  
This wandering installation was conceived eight years ago in a series of photographs taken by my deaf cousin Neil. I was rowing a boat through tall grass in Central Washington. She (the not-boat) doesn’t know she wasn’t born to float or swim; travel over time, deafness, grass or water – and if you tell her to take your picture she can’t hear you no matter how loudly you shout.

**Macnaughton II &#8211; Reed Epigram Project**
  
**Macnaughton II**
  
The Reed Epigram Project will consist of a survey of all Reed inscriptions and graffiti during a set time period. These writings and drawings will then be compiled into various mediums for display during Reed Arts Week, providing a unique, never before compiled perspective into the various forms of expression by Reed students.

**Becca Roberts**
  
**Olde Paradox**
  
Airplane satellite orbital views of sand, drawn freehand, from my coach Alaskan Airline. Stark Salt Lake, something I hope my pen can take this ink flowing wake. Only an interpretation of flying from Portland to Los Angeles with a layover in Utah using plywood and paint pens.

**Will Scarlett &#8211; _The Harmony of the Spheres_**
  
**Student Union Porch**
  
We reject the distanced, dispassionate Earthly gaze of Apollo that has plagued our western imagination from the golden age of your beloved Greeks. We dethrone his objectified globe, and in its place, through sonic immersion, reside within the immanent sphere. Come assemble with the cosmos, harmonize with the celestial sphere.

**Rachel Schmerge**
  
**Eliot Hallways**
  
Are city parks an escape to nature or an extension of urban confinement? As a series of grass-filled boxes that evoke a park-like environment, this interactive installation explores the relationship between the natural and the man-made within the urban landscape.

**Winnie Schmidt &#8211; _My City, My College, My Space_**
  
**Library Lobby**
  
An inclusive project that aims to show how members of a community view their surroundings. Participants are given free reign to map the campus or the neighborhood how they see fit; this will show how fellow students, staff and faculty relate to their environment and reveals how they view places important to them. All aesthetic factors of the representations are significant in how we relate to our surroundings.

**Megan Stockton**
  
**Grey Campus Center &#8211; Room C**
  
The metaphor comparing nature to the body is found in literature and poetry in every part of the world. Despite language barriers and cultural differences, it seems universal that we stand speechless at the base of incredible natural monuments and breathless before a lover. By acting as a cartographer of the body, I explore and connect these two fundamental human experiences to analyze their spatial relationship through photography. This body-landscape mapping is the indexical connection between these different features, connecting micro to macro, helping us understand, navigate, and articulate the human body in relation to both urban and natural landscapes.

**Cora Walters &#8211; _Haunts_**
  
**Quincy 132**
  
Haunts is a physical space that attempts to explore how people use their own memory and personal experiences to re-map the spaces they encounter. We all carry wounds inside of us that,in the context of the haunted space, are transposed onto the physical environment around them. This projects attempts to make a universally haunted space, both esthetically and truthfully, that all people can access and examine.

**Maya Wolf &#8211; _Insectival_**
  
**Paradox &#8211; New Shoppe**
  
Exploration of perspective through the search for and documentation of insects in the Reed College Canyon by group of participants. Actual specimens, drawings, and photographs of bugs on display.

**Ross Young &#8211; _Array_**
  
**Vollum Atrium**
  
Array is an attempt to map the electromagnetic landscape of interior space through translation into a constantly changing soundscape. Spreading networked antennae reveal this invisible terrain as pure noise, emergent musicality, or the underlying order of wireless communication.

&nbsp;

**FEATURED VISITING ARTISTS**

_**BEN WOLF (in collaboration with SWOON) – Assembly of Freight**_
  
Sculptor and installation artist Ben Wolf creates architectural collages from recycled materials.
  
His recent work includes the sustainable housing project Konbit Shelter in Haiti and collages of abandoned houses in Detroit, MI. Commissioned for RAW: GEOGRAPHIES, Wolf’s Assembly of Freight is a large-scale installation made of scrap metals and wrecked freight trains. The sculpture will be on display in Eliot Circle for the duration of the festival. Multimedia artist
  
SWOON will embellish the sculpture with wheat-pasted ephemera.

_**FRANCIS ALŸS – When Faith Moves Mountains, Sometimes Making Something Leads to**__ **Nothing (Paradox of Praxis II), Retoque/Painting**_
  
The works of Francis Alÿs emerge in the interdisciplinary space of art, architecture, and social practice. The Belgian-born artist left behind his formal training as an architect and relocated to Mexico City, creating a diverse body of artwork that explores issues of urbanity, spatial justice, and the poetics of the land. From painting to performance art, his works engage micropolitics with a paradoxical eye to both their futility and creative power. RAW: GEOGRAPHIES will present screenings of three works: When Faith Moves Mountains, Paradox of Practice, and Retoque/Painting. All three video works will be screened together on Friday 3/4 at 7:00 PM, and Saturday 3/5 at 4:00 PM.

_**GARY WISEMAN & GABE FLORES – Overall Readings**_
  
Gary Wiseman and Gabe Flores are prolific Portland-based conceptual artists and co-curators of PLACE gallery. In Overall Readings, Wiseman and Flores will infiltrate the social landscape of Reed College. Their site-specific performance consists private conversations space between artists and participants transcribed in public. Overall Readings negotiates the boundaries and prescriptions of social contracts while revealing the pitfalls of interpretation. The performance will take place in Reed College Commons during selected hours throughout the week.

_**KATHY WESTWATER – PARK: PDX**_
  
Choreographer Kathy Westwater creates art that exists in the human body. Inhabiting the gap between dance and performance art, her work reimagines and reconfigures the body’s movement potential. During RAW: GEOGRAPHIES, Westwater will present two site-specific dance pieces on Reed campus based on the relationship between the public park and the landfill, specifically examining their cycles of consumption, production, and regeneration.
  
PARK: PDX, will be performed in the Student Union at 8:00 PM on Thursday 3/3. PARK MOVEMENT PIECE, a response to Ben Wolf’s Assembly of Freight, will be performed at 5:30 PM on Friday 3/4. Westwater will also present labPARK, a workshop on Friday 3/4.

_**LIZE MOGEL – Mappa Mundi**_
  
Lize Mogel is an interdisciplinary artist and radical cartographer who works in the interstices between art and cultural geography. She creates and disseminates counter-cartography–maps and mapping practices that produce new understandings of social and political issues. Her work connects the real history and collective imaginary about specific places to larger narratives of globalization. During RAW, Mogel will contribute her piece, Mappa Mundi for exhibition as a mural in the Gray Campus Center. This work, which will be on display indefinitely, as Mogel explains, is based on “the intricacies of globalization&#8230; an attempt to remake the world map, relying on ‘associative’ geographies rather than physical ones.”

_**JACINDA RUSSELL & NANCY DOUTHEY &#8212; 3 weeks, 6 earthworks, 1 portable studio and**__ **ALL that lies in between**_
  
RAW: GEOGRAPHIES will present 3 weeks, 6 earthworks, 1 portable studio and ALL that lies in between, a set of photographs, sculptural objects, books, and video created by Jacinda Russell and Nancy Douthey. “3 weeks,” is the record of performances made in response to six famous earthworks during the course of a three-week road trip across the American West. Using humor, performativity, and a feminist lens, Russell and Douthey question the inaccessibility of such works as Robert Smithson’s Spiral Jetty, as well as the predominately masculine discourses within the earthworks movement. Photographs and other artifacts from this journey will be on display in the Reed College Library throughout the festival. This installation is sponsored by the Douglas F. Cooley Memorial Art Gallery.

_**MELVIN EDWARD NELSON – Photo Genetics & Sentra Photo Thesis**_
  
Self-identified primitive artist Melvin Edward Nelson creates abstract painted “recordings” of his astral travels and the magnetic fields felt from his hilltop farm in Colton, Oregon. Working primarily in the middle of the night with handmade pigments and watercolors, Nelson relies on his own inner vision to map a vivid and deeply personal cosmogony. RAW: GEOGRAPHIES is proud to curate the second solo exhibition of Nelson’s singular artistic voice. Photo Genetics and Sentra Photo Thesis will be on display in Vollum Lounge for the entirety of the festival. A symposium featuring a lecture entitled “Ephemeral Geographies: Non-empirical Contexts in Art Brut” by outsider art expert Randall Morris will be presented on March 3rd at 5:00

&nbsp;

**Lectures and Workshops**

_**Crystal Williams &#8211; “Walking the Cemetery: Detroit Poems”**_
  
_**Wednesday 3/2, 5 PM &#8211; Chapel**_
  
In these troubling days, Detroit, MI, has become a metaphor for our national failures, our despair, our longing, our fears. But for some of us, Detroit is home, the place we first learned to love, laugh, and, yes, lose. The poems from this in-progress collection, “Walking the Cemetery: Detroit Poems,” investigate memory and love and loss and use the city, my city&#8211;as it was once and as it is&#8211;as their backdrop.

_**Randall Morris &#8211; “Ephemeral Geographies: Non-empirical Contexts in Art Brut”**_
  
_**Thursday 3/3, 6 PM – Chapel**_ 
  
The greatest works of art brut document intangible worlds. Myth, magic, and multi-dimensional experience is all taken as natural and given. Melvin Edward Nelson was one of many artists whose visions reflected out of body experiences and visionary involvement. This lecture will discuss other artists who work in other cultural milieu to be inter-dimensional gatekeepers and travelers.

_**Kathy Westwater &#8211; “labPARK”**_
  
_**Friday 3/4, 1 PM – Winch/Capehart**_
  
Kahty Westwater will conduct a movement and voice workshop entitled labPARK. This is a workshop exploring improvisational movement and voice practices used to create PARK and that explore cycles of consumption and waste, and destruction and construction, of body and land. The creative physical practices that underlie PARK, that will be explored in labPARK, have been developed to lead one from what is known, apprehensible, and consumable into the structural unknown. These practices speak to the inherent adaptability of the human body and mind to ever shifting circumstance and environment. This workshop is designed for experienced and non- experienced movers alike.

_**Dejan Lukic &#8211; “On Rootless Lines”**_
  
_**Friday 3/4, 4 PM – Physics Pit**_
  
We are surrounded by lines. Some we make ourselves, others are drawn for us. They enclose us and liberate us; we follow them and deviate from them. There are lines of thought, lines of texts, lines of rivers, lines of textiles, lines of paint. There are rigid grid lines of the new cities, twisted lines of political maps, violent lines of projectiles. In short, the political and the poetic collide on a line of existence. So what happens when lines become amorphous, and plants political, and lighting-bolt an image for thought?

_**Matthew Lippincott &#8211; “Grassroots Mapping & DIY Aerospace”**_
  
_**Saturday 3/5, 12 PM – Winch/Capehart**_
  
In this talk, aerospace artist Mathew Lippincott will discuss the growth of low-cost/DIY practice in aerospace, and his own work with Grassroots Mapping and PLOTS (Public Laboratory for Open Technology and Science). Inexpensive tools and distributed R&D are enabling community-led investigations that break traditional boundaries of professional science and community activism. As a balloon developer, Mathew collaborates on low-cost balloon and kite photography equipment for map-making with Grassroots Mapping, whose images of the Deepwater Horizon oil spill broke BP’s media blackout with high-resolution coastal maps of critical sites. He is also a founding member of PLOTS, a principal at sanitation research initiative Cloacina, and a resident of Portland. The talk will be followed by a demonstration of balloons and discussion of construction techniques including heat seaming, gluing, and taping balloons, ground-handling, and flight basics. Participants will be able to take home a simple solar balloon construction kit.

_**Flying Bird Kung Fu Puppet Theater &#8211; “Return to Tiger Mountain”**_
  
_**Saturday 3/5, 2:30 – Under Theater Building**_
  
This thirty-minute puppet show will be presented in the natural environs of the Reed Canyon (beneath the theater building, on the banks of Crystal Springs). Although the audience will be protected from falling rain, please dress warmly and be prepared to sit on the cold, unforgiving ground.