---
title: An Open Letter from a CSO and Reed Alum
authors: 
  - Staff
type: post
date: 2011-03-31T19:36:11+00:00
url: /2011/03/31/686/
categories:
  - Opinion

---
As a Reed Alumna (’05 Art History) and a current Reed employee (Community Safety Officer), I feel a strong connection to this community and I want to see it thrive. I enjoy my job most when students and CSOs have friendly and open dialogue, and respectfully challenge each other’s ideas.

I am grateful that _the Quest_ is giving voice to students who feel underrepresented, and providing a platform for continued discussion about the shared values of the Reed community. That being said, there are some points I’d like raise in regard to recent articles.

In the March 10, 2011 issue of _the Quest_ it was stated that some students claimed to have been issued “multiple AOD violations without warning.” I’m curious how much warning students need in order to understand that they are violating the law and the housing contract they signed. I cannot speak for anyone else, but I’m usually aware that if I violate a housing contract I signed (for example, by installing shelves that, if removed, will rip out noticeable chunks of wall), there will be consequences (I may not get my deposit back). If I repeatedly upset the neighboring residents of my apartment by playing music too loudly while their children are trying to sleep, and am unwilling to change my disrespectful behavior, I may be evicted. It seems to me that complaining that the school is doing what it always said it would do (enforce housing contracts and school policy) is the pinnacle of entitled behavior.

Reed’s implementation of both its housing contract and its Alcohol and Other Drug policy is different from that of many other colleges and universities nation-wide. In many schools, if you are found to be smoking cigarettes or anything else in your dorm room, you will receive a fined citation, and at some schools you will be evicted from the dorms. At many colleges and universities in this country, if you are found smoking marijuana on campus, you will be arrested and acquire a criminal record that will follow you into your future as you seek employment. Reed College chooses to believe that young people may not always thoroughly consider the consequences of their actions, and that engaging in dialogue about risk-taking behavior and offering resources to students who may have medical issues with alcohol or other drugs is preferable to criminalizing said behavior. This seems very reasonable to me.

What does not seem reasonable to me is the argument that a student should be able to repeatedly violate school policy with no negative consequences. That is the sort of attitude that reflects the behavior of people like Paris Hilton, or others that believe that because of their family’s wealth or their own personal fame, they are somehow above the rules that everyone else must follow. If you feel that the housing contract is unreasonable, you have the option to live off campus. If you do not like the policies of the Reed community, you are free to seek your education elsewhere. You are here voluntarily, and by choosing to go to school here. you are tacitly accepting the responsibilities of a Reed community member.

Dhyana Cabarga
  
Community Safety
  
Class of 2005