---
title: Judicial Board Training Misrepresented
author: Maha Pasha
type: post
date: 2011-11-09T02:15:30+00:00
url: /2011/11/08/judicial-board-training-misrepresented/
categories:
  - Opinion

---
We are concerned with a number of inaccuracies in Nelle Heffron’s article that appeared in last week’s _Quest_, which described current training received by the Judicial Board (J-Board). Having participated in J-Board training for ten years, we were surprised by the misinformation provided by the writer. In our roles as the faculty and staff J-Board advisers, we are known publicly and are available to meet with community members to provide information and answer questions that arise regarding the J-Board and its procedures. We have been interviewed by _Quest_ reporters in the past and answered their questions regarding the J-Board.

This _Quest_ piece is problematic for several reasons in addition to the misstatements regarding J-Board training (which we address below). First, it is unclear from the presentation if this was intended as an editorial or as a news item. The italicized sentence from the Quest editorial board suggests the editors saw the contribution as an opinion piece, but it was not labeled as such and was presented on a page with the banner headline “NEWS”. _[Editor’s note: This was an oversight during the layout process – Heffron’s article was definitely intended to be an opinion piece.]_ Second, the author in several places conflates two issues – board composition and board training – in a manner that is unhelpful for considering the kinds of changes that the community is addressing through legislation proposed by the Student Senate and the Community Affairs Committee (CAC). The reason the CAC’s proposal and the discussion at the faculty meeting focused on board composition is because legislation must be approved for any changes from the current, code-mandated system in which the student J-Board is the adjudication body for _all_ honor cases, including those involving sexual misconduct (with limited exceptions noted in the current J-Board code). The faculty were focusing appropriately on the question that requires their deliberation and votes – should a new adjudication body be designated to hear honor cases involving allegations of sexual misconduct? Central to this question of board composition is the issue of which barriers stand as a deterrent to alleged survivors bringing forward honor cases. If the current J-Board composition presents this kind of deterrent, are there alternative board compositions that will remedy this situation? While we agree with the author that this is a large and difficult issue to resolve, that does not remove it as an important topic for discussion during the process of considering legislative changes to the adjudication procedures. A third concern is the author&#8217;s interpretation of motives behind the student signatures gathered for last spring&#8217;s petition. While we agree that the number of signatures gathered demonstrates the strength of the community&#8217;s interest and concern with the issues we are addressing legislatively this fall, it is simply not possible to know what the signers intended when they signed a petition that addressed a number of distinct issues (including appointment of a new Assistant Dean and hiring a Women’s Center liaison).

On the topic of training, the author makes several incorrect statements about past and current J-Board practices. In the past five years, the training in adjudicating sexual assault cases has been strengthened, and the contribution of Pete Meagher is reflected in the training the J-Board received both last and this year. We have incorporated training from Occidental College and have benefited from learning of adjudication practices from judicial officers from across the state, emphasizing the importance we place on learning from other programs in this complicated work. The two-hour session the author described was only part of the board’s fall training, and preceded a full weekend of training (8 hours Saturday and 4.5 hours Sunday) that included J-Board members, the President, the Dean of Student Services, J-Board’s staff and faculty advisers, and College counsel. The earlier session enabled the board to do additional work in preparation for both training sessions over the weekend, to practice hearing a sexual assault case, and to hear a critique of their work. Far more than two hours were spent in training relevant to sexual assault cases.

A very important component of training the J-Board to adjudicate sexual assault cases is to train them in adjudication of honor cases, and so one cannot separate the training neatly into discrete units. Training for the J-Board is ongoing and reiterative, and does not stop with the sessions to which the author refers. J-Board members review past cases and other training documents even before the fall training, and continue to do so throughout the year. Each semester after their work is underway, the board chairs meet with the advisers to assess where the J-Board may need additional training, and training has been added later in the semester as needed. In addition to the weekend training in the fall, a second training is always held at the start of the spring semester.

The training mentioned by the author that was offered to the college staff this summer focused on investigating sexual assaults, rather than adjudication. The J-Board was invited to send one representative. One of the co-chairs attended and is sharing the relevant information with all members of the board. It is important to remember that the J-Board’s primary responsibility is to adjudicate cases, not to investigate cases, although in the process of preparing and hearing a case, the board does seek additional information once the they have read the documents provided by the complainant and respondent. Similarly, it is not the J-Board’s job to create definitions of consent, assault, etc.; it is their responsibility to apply the definitions and policies outlined by the College in a fair and equitable way.

Do we need to continue to improve our training of hearing boards? Yes. We have worked conscientiously to do so and we will continue our efforts in the future. It is important work that is taken very seriously by the J-Board and by the advisers.

_The views expressed herein are solely those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the opinion of_ The Quest’s _editorial board._

_Printed: 9/29/2011_