---
title: A Letter from Your RAW Czars
author: Staff
type: post
date: 2011-03-03T20:33:46+00:00
url: /2011/03/03/a-letter-from-your-raw-czars/
categories:
  - Features
tags:
  - RAW
  - reed arts week

---
Our experience is defined by movement across the land, by the twists and turns of hallways, by the shape of the ceilings above us. We twine through the labyrinth, rarely realizing its parameters. We do not see the lines of buildings, let alone their limits and the cracks of their foundations. We do not see what lies beneath, behind. Illiterate to the language of footsteps, we cannot read what we write. Seeking to transform our physical, social, and psychological landscapes, RAW: GEOGRAPHIES explores and reconstructs our surrounding space. Entering into the emerging discourse of experimental geographers, radical cartographers, old-school land artists, unruly activists and stodgy theorists, it resides in the interdisciplinary space of psychogeography, spatial practice, environmentalism and architecture.

RAW: GEOGRAPHIES seeks to acknowledge the provisional nature of boundaries, to embrace the weeds and suspend the everyday in a space for potentiality and play. RAW: GEOGRAPHIES arrived at its place in the developing field of ‘new geography’—as this nebulous intersection is often called—through its own winding trajectory, shaped by theoretical, political, and aesthetic parameters. First emerging from an interest in cartography, RAW: GEOGRAPHIES began to break down normative, mimetic modes of representation in search of living, sprawling lines. RAW GEOGRAPHIES turned on its side, expanding across the horizon. It sprouted into spaces of spectacle and situation, utopian and dystopian, betwixt and between. The real and the ideal, on micro and macro scales, and spaces in which both are achieved. Captured within heterotopia, RAW: GEOGRAPHIES became aware of the transformative potential of space. Drifting along Situationist lines, it then examined the production of space, that results as much from our limbs and whims as from empirical model and material fact.

Upon entering this urban context, RAW: GEOGRAPHIES acquired a political bent. It began to examine the psychological experience of the city and read everyday stories in footsteps. Yet, caught in heady theory and academic jargon with feet high above the earth, RAW: GEOGRAPHIES sought a return to its original poetic ground—to Geographies, of soil and steel.
  
Seeking the poetry of the earth but discovering a landscape imbued with the politics of the everyday, RAW: GEOGRAPHIES finally emerges suspended in between. The space of Reed College, as an educational institution, a social network and built environment, is the foundation of RAW: GEOGRAPHIES. As we explore this landscape, we trip over the rules and boundaries that define and constrain our everyday experience, finding creative transformation and administrative regulation closely intertwined. RAW: GEOGRAPHIES negotiates bureaucracy at each turn in the land—every step, carefully planned, passes through the proper administrative channels. The institutional infrastructure of RAW: GEOGRAPHIES both facilitates our mission, providing the physical space, financial means and academic fuel, while mediating our ideals of spatial transformation. As we produce space, we ask, how exactly can we touch this earth and each other? How, in our turbulent endeavor, do we still maintain respect for our foundations?

Somewhat a contradiction in terms, RAW: GEOGRAPHIES approaches its institutional nature with an eye to the productivity of paradox and the creative potential of the space between.
  
Traversing and dispersing boundaries physical, theoretical, and institutional, RAW: GEOGRAPHIES motivates participants to do the same. Ben Wolf’s mammoth construction Assembly of Freight disrupts the center of Reed College in a moment of suspended collision.  Revealing our institutional roots, the sprawling steel assemblage is contained each night by hired security guards. However constrained, the structure’s stories of freedom and spatial transgression sneak past its guard, calling into question the stagnancy of our own landscape. Kathy Westwater’s multimedia dance performances locate such tensions within the body, as movement vacillates between the unrestrained—the wandering pedestrian, unruly child, sprawling trash—and the negotiated. Meanwhile, self-proclaimed primitive artist Melvin Edward Nelson asks us to “let not only your eyes, but your entire being” discover his inchoate worlds found in darkness. Lize Mogel’s Mappa Mundi brings us back to earth, placing the reality of globalization’s economic consequences in the public sphere. Literally turning the corner, the mural walks across two walls and remaps geopolitical landscapes. Moving mountains, Francis Alys suspends us between hope and despair, using poetic action to counter political impotence. Gary Wiseman and Gabe Flores’ Overall Readings disrupts the social topography of the campus cafeteria, playfully questioning the contours of conversation and trust. Similarly inspired by humor, the works of Jacinda Russell and Nancy Douthey poke at the ego of land art to bring an experience of the earthworks’ immensity to a space near you.

Each work is written on the land as it is in this catalog, maybe bound by your own hands with the help of Publication Studio. Through these works of diverse media and origins, RAW: GEOGRAPHIES challenges participants to unearth their own stories, to rewrite their topographies, and transform the space of their everyday. Poetic action becomes political intervention, shaping the space around us.

Beginning March 2nd, RAW: GEOGRAPHIES invites you to move through this upended landscape, to navigate new lines and sprout new roots. It asks you to learn the language of footsteps, to decode and let surface what lies beneath. It compels you in, through campus corridors and cracks in the foundation, to explore both the institutions above and the weeds below. Finally, it puts within your own hands the hammer and the kite, the brush and the blueprint. Open the window; remap this landscape. Make your own space.