---
title: 'An Introduction to Senate and Getting Shit Done at Reed: How an Idea Becomes a Reality'
authors: Rob Shryock
type: post
date: 2011-09-26T22:39:04+00:00
url: /2011/09/26/an-introduction-to-senate-and-getting-shit-done-at-reed-how-an-idea-becomes-a-reality/
categories:
  - Features
  - News
  - Senate

---
In third grade, we all learned about how a bill becomes a law to the tunes of Schoolhouse Rock&#8217;s “I&#8217;m Just a Bill”. Unfortunately, Schoolhouse Rock didn&#8217;t make a Reed College equivalent, because not many Reedies understand how to create change on their own campus. It&#8217;s probably a good thing nobody has made a catchy tune to guide Reedies from the moment when some Reedie (or Reed administrator) thinks, “There ought to be a policy change” to the point when the change occurs, because it would be a very long song and probably pretty convoluted. The process of how policies are made at Reed is not like the three branches of the United States government, nor is it the absolute monarchy Reedies sometimes think it is, and as such, policy making at Reed can seem foreign and complex. But this isn&#8217;t the case: Student Body President Nora McConnell-Johnson has noted, “It’s pretty remarkable how simple (the process) is considering the large amount of autonomy the Student Body has.” This guide is by no means perfect, but it represents an approximation of how an idea becomes a policy change, using some examples from the past year.

Proposal: A student or student group proposes a change to Senate. “Ideally, they have a very clear idea of exactly what they want,” said Sigman. “They then come to Senate and say, “We really want this.” For example, Blue Heron Infoshop wrote a letter to the Quest and then went to senate with their demands for more gender neutral bathrooms on campus.

Conversation: ****Senate tries to test the waters in various ways. Senate represents the students to the administration. In Sigman&#8217;s words, “Senate is the mouthpiece of student body: their role is to facilitate conversation between students and the administrators of Reed College,” said Sigman. “Students talk to us, and we talk to everyone.” So Senate speaks with various administrators, faculty, students, and departments on campus. Often, as in the case of gender neutral bathrooms, they will encourage the members of a student group to take a referendum to the student body. In a nutshell, Senate seeks to gather everyone&#8217;s opinions so as to make a decision that best reflects the opinions of the student body and the administration.** **

Drafting Legislation and Revising Legislation: Senate can propose and amend college policies and make recommendations to departments like Facilities Services, who got the final word in the case of the gender neutral bathrooms. In that particular instance, Senate got Blue Heron in touch with Facilities Services, and the repeated proposals of Blue Heron were not approved by Facilities, who believed that there were already enough gender neutral bathrooms on the main campus. Another example is that of the sexual assault policy: Senate put forth legislation to create an alternative hearing board option. This legislation has now been passed to CAC (the Community Affairs Committee). As of this writing, CAC has not responded to the sexual assault hearing board proposal (simply because they just don&#8217;t meet over the summer), but once they look at the document they will suggest changes, and Senate will suggest changes after that, and it will bounce back and forth until both Senate and CAC find it satisfactory, at which point it will go to a meeting of the Faculty. The faculty will discuss it and approve of it or disapprove of it, defer it, or take no action. In the latter situation it is automatically approved as long as the President also takes no action. The trustees also need to approve changes made to the Student Body Constitution and the Community Constitution.

In a nutshell, senate has the power to legislate, but it has many checks on its power: CAC, the faculty, the president, and the trustees. These checks have a purpose: it attempts to ensure that decisions happen by agreement between the various bodies that hold power at this school, and to satisfy as many people as possible, while creating policies that are carefully worded and heavily reviewed.

There are two ways to make changes at Reed. You can be part of Senate, or, if you&#8217;re not one of the lucky eight, you can show up to senate meetings at 5pm on Mondays in the Student Union and make your voice heard. In the past, Senate meetings at Reed have often been under-attended. This is unfortunate, for, to quote Sigman, “We can only represent the student body as it comes forward to us.” To make a better Reed, and to make Reed the way you want it to be, go to Senate meetings and learn about Reed politics and create change.

_Printed: 9/1/11_