---
title: 'Op-Ed: SP-NO, Why student patrol officers shouldn’t report AOD violations'
authors: 
  - "Members of the Blue Heron Collective"
type: post
date: 2012-02-24T22:06:05+00:00
url: /2012/02/24/op-ed-s-p-no-why-student-patrol-officers-shouldnt-report-aod-violations/
categories:
  - Left Sidebar
  - Opinion

---
Last week&#8217;s Quest reported that the Student Patrol Officer program is soon to be reinstated, and that these SPOs would have the duty to report AOD violations. In light of recent events, this betrays an unsettling trend in the campus climate around AOD issues.

Much remains unknown about the circumstances of the recent drug arrests. There is debate over whether Community Safety acted properly, but it’s undeniable that many in the community find police presence on campus disturbing and distressing. Two years ago at the freshman Renn Fayre information meeting, a CSO at the time named Rose gave an inspiring speech contrasting safety with security and emphasizing that the mission of Community Safety is not to back up rules with force, but to actually create a safe environment. Police are enforcers, and bringing them campus does NOT promote a safe space. In this case, security clearly won. Whether or not their actions can be considered necessary, Community Safety has violated a certain amount of trust, and the damage cannot simply be dismissed. This is a trend; an MRC discussion on racial profiling earlier this week uncovered severe mistrust of CSOs by some students of color, to the extent that several felt uncomfortable attending the event.

Having students report AOD violations would only exacerbate a lack of trust in the community. The relationship between students and Community Safety is already tenuous; it would be unfortunate if students didn’t even feel comfortable approaching each other for help, for fear of getting in trouble. Last week&#8217;s article paraphrased Gary Granger saying SPOs “will not be engaging directly with the students they are reporting on.” While this may protect SPOs from animosity, it’s likely to spur a feeling of paranoia among students, as they can thereby be “busted” without even knowing it. AOD reports by SPOs would also undermine much of the harm reduction progress that has been made recently with the creation of the Medical Amnesty Policy and the work of the Night Owls. The Night Owl program is a fine example of a student position that ensures the wellbeing of students outside of a narrowly punitive framework—a mission students once widely associated with Community Safety.

Additionally, SPOs with AOD reporting powers would face Honor Principle difficulties. The Honor Principle encourages informal discussion of offenses between affected parties before formal action is taken. An SPO reporting an AOD violation would be effectively soliciting formal action for a situation in which no community member was offended. If the SPO were personally bothered by the substance use, an informal discussion would be appropriate. Often even this would not apply, and until a CSO is notified, no offense to the CSO exists either. Getting a fellow student in more trouble than necessary is seriously problematic, if not a clear HPV. It’s also a shame if some students think CSO intervention is a replacement for simply speaking to one another about a cause for concern. This kind of frank conversation, however, is contingent upon trust between students.

Finally, it’s glaringly inappropriate that this decision was made without student input. Any position that creates a power differential between people who are otherwise peers ought to be carefully considered by the group, making sure objections and suggested revisions are addressed and that at least a majority consent is obtained. Otherwise, it is a top-down move that infringes on student autonomy and self-government. Formal measures such as a referendum are being considered to bring student voices to this issue. However, a grassroots solution is also available: don&#8217;t sign up to be an SPO. A destructive position such as this cannot exist if students are not willing to populate it.

Real talk: if getting paid to spend your Friday night ratting out other students sounds like a good time, a student radical group’s article probably isn’t going to change your mind. But trust between students is pretty damn important. Maintaining a community where we feel empowered to discuss problems with our peers without having to first put on a uniform is important, too. In our view, Community Safety has been unfortunately unwilling to earnestly consider substantive policy adjustments in response to legitimate student concerns, and cavalier in deviating from an approach based on trust and respect towards students that attracted many of us to this school. With this program, the mistrust their actions have fostered threatens to permeate the student body.

_The Blue Heron Collective meets Friday at 5:30 in the Blue Heron Infoshop (downstairs GCC). _