---
title: Judicial Board Case Summaries – 2011–2012
author: Staff
type: post
date: 2012-09-29T03:49:03+00:00
url: /2012/09/28/judicial-board-2011-2012-case-summaries/
categories:
  - Announcements
  - J-Board Case Summaries
  - News

---
_The Judicial Board is required by the J-Board Bylaws to send “a summary report, not violating confidentiality,” of the previous semester’s cases to The Quest. These are the belated case summaries from last fall and the summaries from last spring. —Editor_

**Fall 2011 **

  * The Judicial Board adjudicated a complaint brought by a student against another student who was alleged to have caused harm to the community by failing to seek treatment for mental illness and for two accounts of sexual assault perpetrated against the student bringing the case and another student. The Judicial Board found the allegations to have been previously adjudicated, and therefore recommended no new sanctions be imposed on the respondent to the case. The President upheld this finding and recommendation.
  * The Judicial Board adjudicated a complaint brought by a member of Student Services against a student alleging sexual misconduct and a violation of the Drug and Alcohol Policy (DAP). The Board found the alleged DAP violation to be within the norms of Reed’s community standards. In the case of the alleged sexual misconduct, the Board found the student to have committed sexual assault. The Board recommended the student be expelled. The President upheld these findings and recommendations.

**Spring 2012**

  * The Judicial Board adjudicated a complaint of academic misconduct brought by a professor against a student alleging that the student had accessed Moodle during a final examination to view class notes. The student agreed with the allegations and the Board found that the individual had thus violated the Honor Principle. The Board recommended community service at the Dojo, 12 Night Owl Shifts, 20 hours of community service during RF, as well as disciplinary probation. The President upheld this finding and recommendation.
  * The Judicial Board adjudicated a complaint of academic misconduct brought by a professor against a student alleging that the misrepresented their own work for an assignment by falsely claiming to have written it before the due date, attending a class explicitly reserved for students who had completed said assignment and lying about the composition date of the assignment both upon submission and in subsequent correspondence with the complainant. The Judicial Board found that the complainant violated the Academic Conduct Policy and the Honor Principle, by being dishonest with a professor regarding academic work. The Judicial Board recommended that the respondent attend academic support workshops and volunteer at Renn Fayre, and that the student be placed on disciplinary probation for the next academic year. The Board found the violations not severe enough to warrant the release of information about the case outside of the college. The President upheld this finding and recommendation.
  * The Sexual Misconduct Board adjudicated a complaint brought by a student against anther student alleging that the respondent had sexually assaulted and harassed them in a shared space. The Board found that the respondent had repeatedly requested to have sex with other students despite repeated requests to stop and that the respondent aggressively approached and yelled at the complainant while nude before physically assaulting the complainant. The Sexual Misconduct Board found that the respondent violated the Reed College Alcohol and Drug Policy, the Reed College Sexual Harassment Policy, and the Reed College Residential Rights and Responsibilities Guide, and the Honor Principle. The Sexual Misconduct Board found the respondent violated the Honor Principle by sexually harassing and aggressively propositioning the complainant and violating a no-contact order. The Sexual Misconduct Board recommended that the respondent take a medical leave of absence from Reed and undergo psychiatric evaluations until the respondent is deemed fit to return to Reed. Upon returning to Reed, the respondent must meet with a counselor to set up a meeting schedule in the future and complete 40 hours of community service.
  * The Sexual Misconduct Board adjudicated a complaint of two alleged sexual assaults by one student upon another. The Board found the respondent in violation of the Honor Principle for both cases of sexual misconduct and for not educating themselves about effective consent. The Board recommended the respondent be suspended and trespassed from school for two semesters, and that prior to the respondent’s return, they meet with the Dean of Students. Upon the respondent’s return to Reed the Board recommended that the respondent take a semester long class on effective consent and meet with a counselor at least once a week; furthermore, the board recommended the respondent be on disciplinary probation for the remainder of their time at Reed. The President upheld the Sexual Misconduct Board’s findings and sanctions.
  * The Judicial Board adjudicated a complaint brought by a member of Student Services against a student who had violated the Drug and Alcohol policy on two occasions and had thereafter failed to respond to requests for mediation both formal and informal. The Board found that while the respondent’s actions in relation to alcohol were not dishonorable, their actions in relation to mediation were neither particularly honorable, as participation in mediation is explicitly voluntary. The Board found that the student had violated the Drug and Alcohol Policy, but found that no violation of honor had occurred. The Board recommended that the complainant and student have a conversation concerning the honor principle, how it relates to AOD policy and that relationship could have been better communicated. The President upheld this finding and recommendation.
  * The Sexual Misconduct Board heard a complaint brought by a member of Community Safety against two students who were accused of sexual assault. The complainant also alleged that one of the respondents violated the Drug and Alcohol policy during the incident.  SMB found that both respondents had failed to gain effective consent, and thus had violated the Honor Principle. The SMB found four incidents of sexual assault to have been committed by one respondent and one incident of sexual assault by the other. The Board recommended that one of the respondents undergo a series of classes on consent, provide community service, and be placed on disciplinary probation, and that the other individual be suspended for two semesters, be banned from living on campus upon their return, be placed on disciplinary probation for the remainder of their career at Reed, and that their return be conditional on completing several courses on consent and the approval of the Dean of Students. The President upheld these findings and recommendations.
  * The Judicial Board heard a complaint brought a member of Community Safety against two students who were alleged to have committed numerous violations of the Drug and Alcohol Policy, the Residential Rights and Responsibilities Guide, and the Honor Principle. The Board found both respondents to have committed the accused violations and recommended that they each serve sixteen hours of community service, to be fulfilled by cleaning dorm rooms. The Board additionally recommended that both respondents be placed on disciplinary and housing probation for the remainder of their time at Reed. The President upheld these findings and recommendations.