---
title: 'The Lutz Report: Queditor’s Lament'
author: Staff
type: post
date: 2012-03-23T23:03:49+00:00
url: /2012/03/23/the-lutz-report-queditors-lament/
categories:
  - Left Sidebar
  - The Lutz Report

---
What the fuck am I spending so much time making this fucking newspaper for anyways? I put so much fucking time into fucking editing these articles that noone will remember in a week and all for what? My fucking name in the masthead and ten to fifteen more words to write on my CV so I can get another job that I can also put on my CV so I can get another job that I can also put on my CV. All so the fucking news can be covered at this elite-ass liberal arts school where noone reads the campus paper anyways because the issues frankly are not that important, because really, who the fuck cares if there&#8217;s some asshole putting up “artistic” posters or if some poet gave a talk in the chapel or if student patrol officers report aods. This entire fucking liberal arts college community is built around such bullshit anyways; what the fuck is the point of most of this education we&#8217;re doing; we&#8217;re learning to write these papers to prove we have the skills necessary only to this auto-perpetuating ecosystem of self-congratulation, because really, the purpose of all these papers we&#8217;re writing is to prove we have the skills to write the same papers in graduate school which is all to prove we have the skills to write the same papers as professors. Well let me tell you something about those papers the professors write; they&#8217;re only talking to each other; none of these papers have any relevance to anyone outside these fucking subdisciplines of subdisciplines, because how could they, how could anyone care about a paper about how to interpret papers about how to interpret literature that&#8217;s not even written to be read but written to be interpreted, by these damn professors who create the demand for the useless product they&#8217;re providing. All while people are fucking starving in Eritrea, people are fucking dying of malaria, people are dieing of fucking DIARRHEA, a totally fucking curable disease. You know what the cure for malaria is? Fucking Tonic Water will cure maria. This shit is totally not beyond what could be under our control, but the vast bulk of our nation&#8217;s intellectual capital is put towards these fucking liberal arts treatises and nothing ever gets fucking done about it. We totally could, noone can say we couldn&#8217;t, because fucking tonic water will cure malaria, but instead we mix tonic water to make our vodka go down easier, because admit it, even at the Number One College in the Nation where Students Love Learning, what do we really live for? Ninety percent of us fucking live for getting that vodka down our throats easier every Saturday night so we can forget about the fact that all these theses we&#8217;re writing, they mean nothing. I swear to god, I spend more time each week making sure the newspaper has all the semicolons and all the hyphens in the right place, I spend more time on that each week than I spend with the people I love, and that&#8217;s not even what I&#8217;m paying to go here for, and when the hyphens in the paper are a higher priority than fucking Love Itself, those fucking priorities are wrong. Fuck.