---
title: Wow
author: Sal Rodriguez
type: post
date: 2012-12-06T19:38:51+00:00
excerpt: |
  Wow.
  
  The last two weeks have been plenty strange. From accusations that I’m a misogynistic, racist homophobe to (presumably) intelligent and thoughtful Reed students attacking speech regardless of context, the hysteria over the Nov. 17 comedy show has been quite a spectacle.
url: /2012/12/06/wow/
categories:
  - Front Page
  - Opinion

---
Wow.

The last two weeks have been plenty strange. From accusations that I’m a misogynistic, racist homophobe to (presumably) intelligent and thoughtful Reed students attacking speech regardless of context, the hysteria over the [Nov. 17 comedy show][1] has been quite a spectacle.

The outrage stems from people who chose to attend a comedy show advertised as having “highly offensive material” and getting offended.  In their eyes, the comedy performance became hate speech when they got offended. The context of words became irrelevant. Their outrage was more important. Meaningful dialogue: out of the question.

Case in point: the bizarre [piece by Stella Jones][2] of the Feminist Student Union. The piece was written without any effort to follow up on my offer to speak with any representative of the group, and appears to be written as a response to the on-stage persona.

Reading the piece, and anything that has been published about the show, you’d think that I had mocked sexual assault victims. Except, I didn’t. The joke I made was a commentary on how ridiculous it is that Reed College students need to be reminded by way of “Consent” signs across campus that sexual activity should be voluntary and mutually consensual.  Edgy stuff.

It has been said that my set was hate speech. I use plenty of hate speech in my performances. Partly for shock value, partly to mock the power people give to words, and ultimately for humor. To those kind-hearted, progressive students who believe that any use of hate speech, regardless of context, is a human rights violation and an absolute atrocity….I can’t do anything for you.  If using any form of hate speech in a comedy performance makes me a racist or sexist, then I presume our standards for what being a racist or a sexist is are dramatically different.

It has been said that my set was not comedy. To joke about “oppressed groups,” the claim goes, is not comedy. It is the upholding of the patriarchal global capitalist white power structure to joke about anyone other than white heterosexual men, apparently. I don’t understand the bizarre ideologies that engender such narrow-minded and self-righteous perceptions of the world. I don’t think most Reed students do, either.

I’ve been at Reed for three years now. The white guilt at this place makes perfect fodder for comedy. Likewise, fundamentalist political correctness and empty commitment to free exchange of ideas and true diversity (intellectual and racial) at Reed are easy to make fun of. Ditto the left-wing authoritarianism underlying much of the “Reed Community” that has driven the absurd response to the comedy show.  It is these misplaced tendencies that I make fun of.

The point of my act is to burst the bubble, to confront Reed students in a comedic fashion for what I perceive to be phoniness and pretensions that I can no longer stay quiet about. Some students understood the act, others didn’t. Some enjoyed it, others didn’t. That is fine. Will everyone agree with my observations? No. If you disagree with me, fine, let’s discuss our points of disagreement like adults at a college where exchange of ideas should be important. Or, call me a dishonorable racist/sexist/homophobe if that makes you feel like you’re accomplishing something. (You’re not.) Or, go ahead and write long essays about why sexism, sexual assault, and racism are bad. How groundbreaking.

I take no pride in having harmed anyone in doing the act. It is terrible that so many people were triggered, for any reason. I sympathize with those who were harmed. But do I think that sexual assault should be off limits to comedians? No. Do I think that joking at a comedy show about sexual assault or racism or poverty is dishonorable? I do not. Call me outspoken: I believe that performers should be free to perform.

Is my comedy playing with risky subjects? Yes. I believe that comedians have a responsibility, beyond dick jokes and giggles, to use their craft to point out problems in the world around them. A fuzzy belief, sure, but that is how I perceive comedy and that is what motivates me.

If you are easily offended or don’t like the acts, you have every right to not attend the comedy shows. I respect every comedian and their freedom to perform, regardless of how transgressive their material is or how coarse their delivery seems. If you want to attend a comedy show advertised as having “highly offensive material” and expect to not be offended, then I urge you to think a little bit more.

Good luck on finals, folks.

 [1]: http://www.reedquest.org/2012/11/comedian-under-fire-for-comments-about-diversity-gender-equality-and-sexual-assault/ "Comedian Under Fire for “misogynistic, racist, and homophobic” Comments"
 [2]: http://www.reedquest.org/2012/11/why-were-getting-all-activist-an-fsu-organizer-responds/ "Why We’re Getting “All Activist”: An FSU Organizer Responds"