---
title: 'Letter: Consent & Substance Use'
authors: 
  - "Tristan Nieto"
type: post
date: 2012-11-08T08:07:02+00:00
url: /2012/11/08/letter-consent-substance-use/
categories:
  - Front Page
  - Opinion

---
This past week while many of us sat ready to launch various criticisms (constructive or otherwise) at guest speaker Meghan McCain, I was in Eliot 314 taking part in a panel discussion facilitated by Students for a Sensible Drug Policy. The panel consisted of one Reed alumnus and White Bird paramedic, Garth Hope-Melnick, two professors from the Psychology department, Daniel Reisberg (Cognitive psychologist) and Paul Currie (Neuroscientist), and of course, our Assistant Dean of Sexual Assault Prevention and Response, Jyl Shaffer. The subject of discussion: how do drugs influence your ability to get/give good consent?

Dan Reisberg began the discussion by outlining the chief criticisms he has heard on the subject from people who claim that they should be able to get consent while under the influence. &#8220;It&#8217;s my life, my body, my choices,&#8221; was the first and a typical Reedie might well say this, supported by the &#8220;I can handle my drugs, I&#8217;m special&#8221;-syndrome. Dan responded to this argument/mindset with, “The majority of people claim that they&#8217;re better than average drivers, and likewise immune to dangers that apply to everyone else; you can see where that logic goes.” After a few drinks however, the same “average” person will claim they are good to drive with an enhanced or at least skewed sense of confidence brought on by a now significantly numbed pre-frontal cortex, the same part which handles your executive functioning and good judgment. This driving metaphor extends well to consent.

Jyl Shaffer opened by stating, “I am not here to tell you that you can’t have sex under the influence, but the more intoxicated someone becomes, the less able they are to practice good consent.” She backed this up with a mélange of horror stories (all anonymous, of course) from her own experience deducing individual cases of claimed sexual assault in order to determine whether or not a case is in fact consensual or assault. “It also depends heavily on the individual. How well do you manage relationships? How often do you actively practice good consent?” Jyl had previously met with one of her Consent workshop facilitators to hypothesize a situation in which a couple could be intoxicated and good consent they determined that, “the if’s were too many- it would be okay _if_ they’re both comfortable talking about consent, and _if_ they can handle their liquor, and _if_ they can read each others’ body language as well as their words while trying to get consent, and _if_ both participants know each other well enough to gauge each others’ comfort levels at any given moment. With a couple in their junior year, maybe- a couple of freshmen who just met? Not so much.” While definitely not an impossible task, there is a high level of risk in these situations.

Complications arose from questions concerning, prescription drugs in combination with other substances, mental health, and the somewhat backward notions of intimacy that sometimes plague Reedies. “’I’m stressed as fuck, I get drunk, I have sex,’”- Not an unfamiliar utterance to Jyl Shaffer, nor should it be too far from any Reedie’s imagination. We live in a stress culture that promotes this process, while alcohol, unanimously voted among the panel, is the chief date-rape drug. This already potent substance (which Paul Currie mentioned is capable of knocking out your entire central nervous system), in combination with prescribed drugs (hopefully taken under doctor supervision) may completely alter a person and their ability to make good choices, whether it’s giving or getting consent. These are factors to always be considered when you might be trying to sleep with someone under the influence of something.

While the panel was not willing to fight the nature of college students to experiment with drugs and sex, but they did provide some good advice. Garth Hope-Melnick mentioned that if a student’s future goals are to live into old age, with decent health, and a stable living, they might benefit from having a sober friend with them while they’re trying acid to say, “Remember: knives are sharp, fire is hot, and you can’t fly.” Dan Reisberg gave one of the best; “I can’t imagine an orgasm so mind-blowingly fantastic that is worth the possible days, months, years of emotional and punitive consequences that result from a sexual assault.”

&nbsp;