---
authors: 
  - "Rebecca Turley"
type: post
date: -001-11-30T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=3174
categories:
  - Uncategorized

---
_November 3_****

**Concert** **– Death w/P.r.o.b.l.e.m.s., Vultures in the Sky @ Branx**

**Concert – Mazzy Star w/The Entrance Band, Mariee Sioux @ Crystal Ballroom**

This could be a hard choice for some people, choosing between two acts that have come back to life to newfound fame in the case of Death, or welcoming arms, in the case of Mazzy Star. So here is your choice: Death is the 1970’s proto-punk band out of Detroit that never made it big (possibly due to racial barriers, they were black men making loud rock music) but are now back due to a documentary (à la Rodriguez), while Mazzy Star is a dreamy country-fried shoegaze band that wanted to tread the middle ground between My Bloody Valentine and Cat Power.****

_November 8_****

**Concert &#8211; Stephen Malkmus & The Jicks w/Rose Windows, Sun Angle @ Crystal Ballroom**

The guitar genius behind Pavement is bringing his band to Portland for a special gig to take part in Crystal Ballroom’s “100 Years, 100 Nights” event, where they have 100 consecutive nights of events to celebrate their 100th anniversary. So don your flannel and prepare to nod your head with your hands in your pocket to some great tunes, both old (“Hey Steve, play Cut Your Hair!”) and new (I heard rumblings of a new album on the horizon).****

_November 20_

**Concert &#8211; Wire w/Helmet, Chastity Belt @ Crystal Ballroom**

This month is chalk full of old-school punk and indie rock acts coming through town, which is more than fine by me. I doubt that I’ll make it to this show, but that is only because I already saw Wire at Pitchfork Music Festival this summer. I can attest that Wire is definitely worth seeing, but don’t go in expecting to hear a lot of “Pink Flag” songs. Wire refuses to be a nostalgia act, and their sets feature nearly all new songs, which can sound like a rather dubious proposition; Wire, however, mount a good argument for keeping things current and not reliving the seventies every single show.****

_November 22_

**Movie – Blue is the Warmest Color @ Cinema 21**

I mentioned this movie in my October preview, and now it has an official Portland release date. I’m still excited for this movie, but the reasons have shifted a bit, as controversies have begun to swarm around the production. The author of the graphic novel that the movie is based on has stated numerous complaints about the movie (which I won’t get into here) and the director just released a huge rant decrying the main actress of the film (which I _definitely_ won’t get into here). So see this movie and expect it to be talked about for a while.****

_November 22-24_****

**Movie &#8211; One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest @ Hollywood Theatre**

Cuckoo’s Nest has a special place in my heart, as it is my father’s favorite movie and one of the only things that can make him tear up, and the sight of the Chief running into the morning mist does it to him time after time. Besides that, the adaptation of Ken Kesey’s novel is a genuinely amazing movie (even though it abandons the unreliable narration of the book, but that’s a different rant), chock full of brilliant performances (Jack Nicholson! Louise Fletcher! Danny Devito! That guy that never stops dancing! Christopher Lloyd! Chucky from Child’s Play [seriously, look it up.]  It is definitely worth catching this movie, even if you’ve seen it before (or, in the case of my dad, biannually), because the Hollywood has a 35mm print, which is a thousand times better than your IMAX 3D nonsense.****

_November 27_****

**Movie – Oldboy @ Cinema 21**

I’m sure a lot of you out there have seen the Korean original (and if you have not, go out and do so), and you are probably also pretty apprehensive of the Spike Lee remake, starring Josh Brolin, Elizabeth Olsen, and Samuel L. Jackson. I won’t try and convince you that it’s gonna be good, since I have no idea myself. We’ll all just have to follow the Standard Operating Procedure for Remakes: go in expecting to be disappointed, and hoping to be amazed.