---
title: An Alumna’s Open Letter to the Board of Trustees
author: Staff
type: post
date: 2013-02-07T06:15:02+00:00
url: /2013/02/06/an-alumnas-open-letter-to-the-board-of-trustees/
categories:
  - Left Sidebar
  - Opinion

---
Hello! My name is Rebecca Ok. I met several of you during the retreat in San Diego in 2008. I&#8217;m writing today to express concern over the increasingly disappointing way in which the Reed College administration has been approaching the fact of drug experimentation and underage drinking at Reed. Mr. Kroger&#8217;s censorship of a handful of Paideia classes (besides being blatantly in violation of the [college&#8217;s operating principles][1]{.broken_link} and the Community Constitution, as other alumni have pointed out) is simply another example of this trend. (If you are unaware of this incident, please click [here][2] to find the original Quest article covering the incident and [here][3] for Mr. Kroger&#8217;s response.)

I take it to be fairly obvious that the Board of Trustees has identified the fact of drug experimentation (as well as underage drinking) at Reed as a problem to be eradicated and has charged Mr. Kroger and the administration with this task. As evidence, I direct you to the increasing enforcement and formalization of the Alcohol and Other Drugs Policy over the past 8 years, comments made at the retreat of 2008, Colin Diver&#8217;s [exit interview in the Reed Magazine][4], and, most recently, Mr. Kroger&#8217;s behavior vis-a-vis certain Paideia classes. I am writing to suggest that the current approach has been unsophisticated, insulting, and promises ultimately to degrade the quality and value of the institution. I offer the following considerations:

1) The students who engage in drug experimentation (of which I was not one) are not the &#8220;dregs&#8221; of the Reed community. These students take meetings and sit on committees with members of all levels of the administration. They are the students who make class worth attending. They write ground-breaking theses. They are responsible for many of the projects, events, and traditions that make the Reed experience what it is and that end up in your marketing material. They go on to become doctors, lawyers, businesspeople. One of them even went on to change the way we interact with music, information, and each other. Anyone who says that drug experimentation and/or underage drinking do not occur at whatever institution of higher education in the US is either lying or deluded. However, supposing you were able to succeed in eradicating drug experimentation, I submit that you would seriously undermine the quality and value of the institution in which you have invested.

2) The current behavior of the administration vis-a-vis drug experimentation is inimical to the value of free inquiry which is central to the [mission of Reed College][1]{.broken_link}. I and many other students came to Reed because we felt that this core value created the expectation that people&#8211;students, faculty, and administrators alike&#8211;would be better both inside and outside the classroom. In most ways Reed measured up. However, the opinion underlying the administration&#8217;s current approach to drug experimentation is that while students may be cognitively mature enough to pursue PhD level studies, they are not mature enough to decide what to do with their Friday nights. This position is untenable. Free inquiry does not occur solely in the classroom, nor does it concern solely pre-approved academic topics. Students and alumni react with outrage when the administration engages in behavior that under-values or circumvents students&#8217; capacity for rational, mutually respectful dialogue because such behavior is infantilizing and patronizing and, thereby, inimical to free inquiry. Supposing you were to assemble a student body that would unquestioningly submit to such treatment, I submit that you would seriously undermine the quality of the student body and, by extension, the institution.

Reed College represents both a challenge and an opportunity. Reed challenges us to worker harder, to think deeper and more creatively, to be more self-reflective, and to be more patient with and tolerant of others. At times Reed can be messy, scary, and annoying. But it provides an opportunity to become better and to undermine prevailing opinions about what is achievable in the course of an undergraduate education. Let us rise to the occasion of Reed College. Let&#8217;s find a more sophisticated, creative, and intelligent way to address the fact of drug experimentation and underage drinking. Such an approach, of course, would leave the college with such challenging questions as &#8220;How do we provide support for students without supporting drug use and underage drinking?&#8221; &#8220;How do we refrain from expelling or otherwise penalizing students experimenting with drugs without being negligent?&#8221; &#8220;How do we allow students to become educated without appearing to encourage drug experimentation and underage drinking?&#8221; But the amazing student body Reed manages to attract every year is well the effort of confronting such questions. Reedies are the most intelligent, creative, playful, and decent group of people I have ever met. Reed has historically provided an environment in which they can thrive and from which they go on to do amazing things. Let&#8217;s take pride in our student body and our institution. Let&#8217;s continue to be exceptional amongst the numerous institutions which make a farce of higher education. Let&#8217;s rise to the occasion of Reed College.

Yours Sincerely,
  
Rebecca Ok &#8217;09

 [1]: http://web.reed.edu/academic/gbook/coll_org/goal.html
 [2]: http://www.reedquest.org/2013/01/paideia-classes-censored-at-krogers-request/ "Paideia Classes Censored at Kroger’s Request"
 [3]: http://www.reedquest.org/2013/02/president-krogers-statement/ "President Kroger’s Statement"
 [4]: http://www.reed.edu/reed_magazine/june2012/articles/features/diver/diver1.html