---
title: 'Letter: New Worlds For Whom? Cautionary Notes on Colonial Fantasies'
authors: 
  - Staff
type: post
date: 2013-04-19T04:57:21+00:00
excerpt: Taken alone, there is nothing problematic about the phrase “New World,” and to dismiss the Renn Fayre Theme out of a sense of naïve political correctness would be in error. Rather, as a community of critically engaged students and scholars, I believe it is our responsibility to attend to the larger histories and contexts in which words are embedded so that by invoking something like a “New World” we do not affirm and reinscribe the latent colonial and neocolonial fantasies that such a phrase inevitably dredges up. Engaging such a line of inquiry, it is crucial to ask ourselves for whom are such New Worlds for and what these fantasies erase.
url: /2013/04/18/new-worlds-for-whom-cautionary-notes-on-colonial-fantasies/
categories:
  - Left Sidebar
  - Opinion

---
_**By Sam Law**_

Taken alone, there is nothing problematic about the phrase “New World,” and to dismiss the Renn Fayre Theme out of a sense of naïve political correctness would be in error. Rather, as a community of critically engaged students and scholars, I believe it is our responsibility to attend to the larger histories and contexts in which words are embedded so that by invoking something like a “New World” we do not affirm and reinscribe the latent colonial and neocolonial fantasies that such a phrase inevitably dredges up. Engaging such a line of inquiry, it is crucial to ask ourselves for whom are such New Worlds for and what these fantasies erase.

Perhaps the most evident erasure in the conjuring of New Worlds is that of the indigenous people from what the Haudenosaunee call “Turtle Island” and what the colonizers named the Americas. Columbus’ imagination presented the Americas as a _terra nullius_, a vast empty land waiting to be settled. But, as over 500 years of indigenous resistance shows, such imaginations were (and are) deeply challenged by those who found there to be nothing new about the world they already lived in. As settlers living on stolen native land, we must not forget how the fantasy of a “New World” served to dispossess the local Chinook Indians of their land, justify the destruction of their means of subsistence in favor of extractive colonial economies and continues to aid in the silencing and forgetting of the very real genocides perpetrated on indigenous people.

But, as Bush Sr. reminds us, the “New World” is not a relic of the past. With increasing privatization, cuts to basic social service, an ever more militarized police force and the increasing importance of corporations and international institutions like the IMF and World Bank, we are indeed entering a New World Order. Perhaps ironically, this neoliberal New World Order is in part what makes Renn Fayre possible. Firstly, some of the money funding Renn Fayre comes from a shady endowment with financial stakes in resource extraction, real estate and corporations around the world. Secondly, the memorandum of understanding that Reed has with the Portland police reflects an increasing global trend towards the total segregation of spaces, wherein the middle and upper classes live in privatized enclaves somehow exempt from the normal reaches of the law. The New World Order that makes Renn Fayre possible is thus a New World that is for us: people of privilege, who do not have to endure the daily indignity of the police occupying their neighborhood and who are insulated from the disrupted social relations and material insecurities that are reality for subjects of imposed globalization the world over.

And finally, there is the question of the New World that Crystal Williams described in her email to the Reed Community as “futuristic in scope and gesture”, as if this temporal displacement de-politicized this imagining. Yet, imaginations of the future represent temporal frontiers yet to be conquered and representations that tell us more about the world we live in than a world yet to come. It is telling that in theme reveal video, the future contained no people of color and a disproportionate number of men. Furthermore, gleaming futuristic technoscapes often lull us into a false sense of security by letting us know that, through technology, “everything will be ok” and erasing the urgency and severity of the planetary environmental crisis we are currently facing.

In the interest of not being a party pooper, I would like to affirm that Renn Fayre is what we make it. In recognizing our own implication in colonial and neocolonial histories, we can act responsibly and envision other possible worlds, taking seriously the hope and possibility that imagination and the experience of rupture offer us. Renn Fayre can serve not only as some well-deserved catharsis but as an opportunity for some serious play. Lets be joyful as we subvert colonial fantasies and playfully and responsibly build a New World in the shell of the old. And hopefully some of that subversive Renn Fayre joy can carry over into other facets of our lives.