---
title: 'Letter: Beyond “Fucking Shit Up”'
author: Paul Messick
type: post
date: 2013-10-05T00:37:20+00:00
url: /2013/10/04/beyond-fucking-shit-up/
categories:
  - Front Page
  - Opinion

---
At Nü Reed, self-reliance is no longer the defining characteristic of the Reed experience outside the classroom. Nü Reed is certainly a friendlier, more forgiving place than Olde Reed, but there is also a vague feeling that something has been lost, that Reed isn’t quite the _college of distinction_ it once was. Reed has not lost something so much as forgotten it. In its transition from a rebellious pressure-cooker to a respectable institution of higher learning Reed has forgotten the value of self-reliance. Because student body autonomy is so tightly intertwined with principled self-reliance (in some ways, the former is the expression of the latter), the disremembering of self-reliance endangers student body autonomy. In this Nü era, the maintenance of student body autonomy is dependent upon us opposing the administration by acting responsibly while creatively subverting attempts to expand the administration’s sphere of influence. In other words, maintaining our autonomy is dependent upon both playing the liability game, and fucking shit up.

If Reed students have historically held any principle closer than the pursuit of the “life of the mind,” it is a fanatical and at times self-defeating faith in self-reliance. For much of Reed’s history, there was no academic or mental health support outside of friends and professors. Students were admitted based on their love for the institution and very little else. In the 1970s the stress was so bad that one particularly eccentric doctor at the student health center handed out amphetamines to students who needed to crank out a paper before sunrise. In the early 1990s, the drop out rate was higher than most inner city high schools. At convocation, bright-eyed Reedies were told to “look to your left, and to your right,” then told, “only one of you will be here in four years.”  This resolute belief in self-reliance as a _guiding principle_ of the Reed experience was institutionalized and defended with an almost fanatic enthusiasm by administrators, faculty, and students alike. For many of the aforementioned reasons, however, many Older Reedies will tell you that _Olde Reed_, whether you declare its death in 1971, 1984, 1993, 2000, 2009, or any other date between Reed’s founding and the day you got here was not the cornucopia of delights people now make it out to be.

However, Olde Reed was – obviously – not all bad. The 200 proof independence streak that ran through campus engendered a kind of community rarely seen before or since. The stress, the lack of support, and the administration’s willingness to allow students to sort things out for themselves meant that more often than not the student body was forced to fill the gap now occupied by student services. This was by design. Reed, as an institution, felt that teaching self-reliance was an important part of the liberal arts education (it also came out of necessity, Reed has been near bankruptcy for much of its history and administrators are expensive).

What Reed students did outside of the classroom – whether they were scrounging, burying a MGB roadster in the foundation of the library, hanging the Doyle Owl by it’s claw from one of the largest bridges in Portland, or occupying Eliot Hall in order to protest Reed’s refusal to divest from South Africa during Apartheid – made Reed the _college of distinction_ it is (or was) every bit as much as what students did inside of the classroom. Though the administration obviously did not _bless_ these activities (especially the aforementioned occupation of Eliot Hall, President Bragdon’s response to the occupation was itself decried as an indicator of the death of Olde Reed), the administration did create an atmosphere that encouraged students to fend for and express themselves by separating itself from the student sphere. When people bemoan the death of Olde Reed, they bemoan the gradual homogenization of Reed, the gradual knuckling under of Principled Self-Reliance to Policy and Liability, the gradual tightening of the administrative ratchet guided by little more than a very narrow definition of _common sense._ 

In every institution, there is an administration that seeks to manage that institution in order to make it as successful as possible. Administrators are theoretically able to implement a rational, long-term plan for an institution because they do not have the same demands on their time as core employees (i.e. faculty). Because it is an administrator’s duty to keep abreast of the long (and short) term internal and external threats to an institution’s well-being, administrations often consolidate control over an institution in order to keep it “on track.” This gradual consolidation of power is known as the “administrative ratchet.” When an institutional practice exposes the institution to liability, or threatens to take it “off track,” the administrative ratchet tightens one notch precisely because it is in the administration’s best interest to control whatever policy or practice is (by their calculations) threatening the long term well being of the institution.

Giving Reed students (a transient, young, brash group) as much autonomy and power as we have is an inherent threat to administrative control. At Nü Reed, the administration responds to a student misstep that has the potential to harm Reed’s institutional future by tightening the administrative ratchet to protect Reed’s long-term interests. At Nü Reed, the calculus of tightening the ratchet has been thrown off by the increased importance bestowed upon liability and demotion of self-reliance in the Pantheon of Reed values.

To reduce the efficacy of the administrative ratchet, we must either reduce its mechanical leverage or limit the scope of the ratchet itself. In physics, mechanical leverage is a function of force multiplied by distance. For most issues at Reed, the leverage of the administrative ratchet is a function of the perceived risk (generally legal risk), divided by the magnitude of creative opposition to new administrative action. There are essentially two ways to reduce the administrative ratchet’s leverage. First, students can reduce the liability they pose to the institution, lessening administrative pressure on student autonomy. Second, students can also creatively oppose administrative action in a way that befuddles the administration, or makes it difficult for them to continue expanding their reach. Both strategies must be employed.

If students simply ignored liability and did whatever we wanted, eventually someone would fuck up sufficiently to _invite_ the administration to take over the practice in question, or end it altogether. When the _Apocalypse_ Renn Fayre happened there was serious talk of ending Renn Fayre altogether, not only because of the damage to school property, but also because of the legal liability Renn Fayre could expose the school to. Renn Fayre has only continued to survive because the Czars mitigate administrative anxiety by communicating with the administration about every aspect of Renn Fayre. If students want to keep control over student life, we must be conscious of the liability we pose to the school, and attempt to soothe administrative fears regarding whatever club or tradition is up for discussion. Being conscious of liability will only take us so far, however. Being overly concerned with liability can be detrimental in its own right. If students play the liability game purely on the administration’s terms, we will adapt their mindset, and find ourselves with less power than before. Creatively opposing administrative imposition into the student sphere is essential to preserving student autonomy.

What then, does creative opposition look like? David Drexler, in his seminal article “fucking shit up” from the ’03-’04 student body handbook, explains:

“At it’s best, Fucking Shit Up results in spontaneous acts of weirdness and beauty that are abnormally fun, and that rouse the community from the complacency into which it naturally lapses. Guerrilla art installations, random structures on the front lawn, random (intelligent) graffiti and psychedelic bicyclation all fall into this category. Really well done acts of Fucking Shit Up tend to stupefy and confound the administration, rather than just pissing it off.”

Effectively opposing administrative imposition requires more than just extending a middle finger. It also requires more than just fucking shit up. Aimless psychedelic bicyclation and guerrilla art may remind students why Reed is special, but unless paired with a _raison d’être_ such acts will not effectively push back against administrative encroachment. This is not to suggest that creative opposition should take it self too seriously, far from it. Community engagement is a vital part of creative opposition, and Reed (thankfully) doesn’t take itself too seriously.

Reed’s gradual denigration of principled self-reliance killed Olde Reed, but the transition to a cuddlier, more parent-friendly Reed doesn’t need to infringe upon student autonomy, or destroy the traditions and practices that we love. Being cognizant of the administrative mindset towards liability and creatively opposing encroachment into the student sphere will do much to keep student autonomy alive.

&nbsp;

Update: In the second paragraph, &#8220;commencement&#8221; was corrected to &#8220;convocation.&#8221;