---
title: LaWhore Vagistan Gives “Lessons in Drag”
authors: 
  - "Jordan Yu"
type: post
date: -001-11-30T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=3237
categories:
  - Events
  - Left Sidebar

---
A drag queen under the alter-ego, “LaWhore Vagistan,” cavorted around the Black Box Theater in the Performing Arts Building on Monday night while giving a performance lecture called “Lessons in Drag.” Kareem Khubchandani is currently earning his doctorate at Northwestern University’s School of Communication. As a post-graduate currently earning his doctorate at Northwestern University’s School of Communication, Khubchandani spoke as a professor might: pacing around the front row, asking the students questions, explaining the rules of the lesson. For example, “you always cheer when a drag queen asks a question.”

Khubchandani chose to give an entire performance lecture dressed in drag about drag because he believes that visualization of something gives a better understanding than just reading words on a page. He explained that talking about drag and club culture in a classroom is different from seeing it in front of your eyes.

During the lecture, Khubchandani talked mainly about queer and drag culture in Southern Asia, focusing on Bollywood and how Bollywood queens help drag queens feel comfortable in their bodies. He recited passages from queer literature written by Southwest Asians for western audiences. Taking on the identities of each of the main characters, he performed each line with such emotion that it was difficult to detect where the narrative ended and the lecture began again. Between these episodes he added commentary he recorded from members of the Asian-American drag community as well as Indians who’s childhoods featured a mélange of black-and-white Bollywood movies and modern music videos.

Race, gender, identity, and “otherness” were all themes of his discussion. While many people he described only found community in the queer clubs of Chicago and London, others found that they were outcast even there. During the question and answer session, he explained how if two Southwest Asians see each other at a club, usually they will refrain from interacting with each other or even making eye contact. If the Asians got together, they would immediately become _that_ Asian couple, they would “immediately become _other_.”

When not talking about Bollywood culture and its influence, Khubchandani, or should I say, LaWhore Vagistan, gave examples of Bollywood dancing, even changing outfits for different songs to make it more exciting. He talked of the legends of Bollywood dancing: Madhuri Dixit and Vyjayanthimala Bali, women who for years graced the vibrant stages of Indian movie sets, dancing, singing, and creating a media culture unlike that of anywhere in the world. Nagin, which was the Bollywood blockbuster of 1954, featured Vyjayanthimala, who played a woman who was once a snake but was turned into a human. Each time Vyjayanthimala heard the lascivious melodies of a flute, she would become entranced, mesmerized by and unable to control her body movements. In this way, millions of movie-goers and TV-watchers all across India became part of the dance, became entrapped in the world of the dance.

For his rendition of the Nagin snake dance, he began slowly and sensually twisting his body, taking on the role of a dancing cobra: mesmerized by the music. He not only rolled on the floor and twirled in circles, but he included the audience in the act as well. Strafing the front row seats, he looked into audience members’ eyes and spat invisible venom into them. He moved from one person to another, preforming his ritual for each. Before another performance he threw Kit-Kat bars to selective audience members, for another performance, he grabbed an audience member from his seat and they danced while his wife looked on in amusement.

For his last routine, he walked over to a table in the corner of the room on top of which sat a large bag filled with hoop earrings and bright jewelry. After putting on shining gold bracelets, he pulled out a gold sequence robe, glimmering in the white stage lights. As he danced around the room, leaning over the dark balcony railings, pantomiming the lyrics, the audience reaction was uniform: all were mesmerized.