---
title: 'Letter: Medical Amnesty Policy Disenfranchises Students, Promotes Unsafe Environment'
authors: 
  - Staff
type: post
date: 2013-04-11T19:55:31+00:00
excerpt: "In mid-March of this year, I received an email containing a surprising letter from Bruce Smith, Associate Dean of Students for Students and Campus Life, in regards to an incident that had occurred the previous week. The letter briefly stated that I had received an AOD violation for drinking alcohol while not of legal age. It went on to list potential disciplinary actions for future violations and included a thoughtful reminder that consuming alcohol while under 21 years of age was, indeed, a violation of Reed's AOD policy."
url: /2013/04/11/letter-medical-amnesty-policy-disenfranchises-students-promotes-unsafe-environment/
categories:
  - Front Page
  - Opinion

---
<div>
  <p>
    <b><i>By Melissa Fisher</i></b>
  </p>
</div>

In mid-March of this year, I received an email containing a surprising letter from Bruce Smith, Associate Dean of Students for Students and Campus Life, in regards to an incident that had occurred the previous week. The letter briefly stated that I had received an AOD violation for drinking alcohol while not of legal age. It went on to list potential disciplinary actions for future violations and included a thoughtful reminder that consuming alcohol while under 21 years of age was, indeed, a violation of Reed&#8217;s AOD policy.

The incident for which I received my first AOD violation happened as follows: I had a few drinks and some old leftovers at a friend&#8217;s house on a Saturday night. Several hours later, my friends and I went to campus, and I was not feeling so great. I decided to sit outside with a friend and, eventually, got a little bit sick. Immediately following this, two CSOs approached and asked if things were alright. My friend and I replied that things were fine, and although I had just gotten sick, I was feeling much better. The CSOs asked if I had been drinking earlier in the night, and I replied, honestly, that I had been drinking a few hours ago. They were glad I had a friend with me, and asked a few more questions in order to file a &#8220;basic report&#8221; about the incident. After asking several identifying questions, the CSOs asked for my birthdate, which I gave to them, and they in turn made a comment about me being under 21 years of age and asked if I had ever received an AOD. My friend immediately asked if this had been a welfare check, and they responded that it had been, but that Gary Granger or Bruce Smith ultimately decide whether something falls under the AOD or medical amnesty policy. As a footnote to this retelling of the incident, I had no alcohol with me and was both coherent and articulate in this interaction.

Quoted from the medical amnesty policy preamble, &#8220;The inclusion of the medical amnesty clause is an effort to ensure that students’ safety takes priority in the implementation of Reed’s AOD Policy.&#8221; If the point of Reed&#8217;s medical amnesty policy is to ensure student safety, then the policy has not been designed and implemented successfully. My incident serves as an example: a welfare check elicited by my own physical distress resulted in an AOD violation because I told CSOs that I had consumed alcohol earlier in the day. If students like myself are receiving AOD violations as a result of publicly being under physical distress, whether vomiting, fainting or something else, then the AOD/medical amnesty policy has created an unsafe environment for students. Those students will worry about facing further disciplinary action should they ever be sick in a public part of campus and will instead feel safer being sick in a private, isolated space–something to be especially cautious of given Reed&#8217;s easily accessible canyon and the high percentage of singles as dorm rooms. They will not feel comfortable telling a CSO if they have ingested alcohol or other substances earlier in the day, and they lose incentive to maintain an honest dialogue with CSOs. Situations like this slowly cause students like myself to discount the integrity of the AOD and medical amnesty policies, especially when the medical amnesty policy is marketed as a policy that was designed to protect student safety. These situations serve as disincentives for students to call Community Safety for assistance when it is needed.

A driving force of the policy is the school&#8217;s hope that students&#8217; first instincts in situations like these will be to call Community Safety for assistance, but how do we navigate cases in which students are too incapacitated to call for help? Or cases in which students do not have access to a phone? Or, in my case, when I was approached just moments after being sick and would not have even had time to call Community Safety for assistance? This should not be a stipulation for medical amnesty policy coverage. Moreover, I am not sure that &#8220;I should call Community Safety&#8221; is the first thing that comes to mind when any student is under a distracting physical distress, and that will especially be the case if the student is concerned about facing disciplinary consequences as a result of an interaction with CSOs and an unclear medical amnesty policy.

If the medical amnesty policy is truly intended to ensure student safety as a priority, it requires revision in both design and implementation. As it is now, the policy creates situations that cause severe disillusionment with the medical amnesty policy&#8217;s integrity. I challenged my AOD violation on the grounds that it should fall under the medical amnesty policy, and my AOD has since been rescinded and covered under the medical amnesty policy, but I am extremely bothered that it happened in the first place. Had someone not pointed out to me that I could challenge this AOD violation and have a conversation with Bruce Smith about it, I would not have further pursued it. I strongly believe that all students should be made aware of these aspects of the current medical amnesty policy. This needs to be the beginning of an ongoing dialogue that involves the student body at large, and if you are a student who has received an AOD violation due to a situation similar to my own, or a student that would like to participate in this dialogue about medical amnesty policy, I highly encourage you to arrange a meeting with Bruce Smith. As this policy forms, students have an opportunity to be an influential voice and it is essential that we participate in this discussion if we want to create and maintain a safe student environment at Reed.