---
title: 'Thesis Christ: Alberta Bleck'
authors: 
  - "Rebecca Turley"
type: post
date: -001-11-30T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=2535
categories:
  - Uncategorized

---
In the 1970s, many Native Americans received land rights, but very little has been done in the intervening years to study these political actions. “It’s not well covered in comparison to other movements that were happening at the same time,” says History major Alberta Bleck, whose thesis will explore the interaction between Native Americans and the municipal government of her hometown of Seattle.

Advised by Jackie Dirks, her thesis is titled “By Right of Discovery: American Indian Land Struggles in 20<sup>th</sup> century Seattle”. “I always knew I wanted to write about Seattle,” says Bleck, whose other main thematic decision was whether to apply an environmental or sociopolitical lens. Choosing the latter, she greatly expanded the research of two previous papers she had written on Discovery Park, a former military base near her home—20 acres of which were given to Native Americans following protests, occupations, and political deliberation.

The park itself is fairly new, having been created in the early 1970s after the land became military surplus and was handed over to the municipal government. The city then had to decide on a use for the valuable property, which occupies 534 acres on the shore of Puget Sound. “Private housing, schools, low-income housing, and several other uses were considered,” says Bleck, “but Native Americans occupied the park and protested, forcing the city into negotiations with them.” They were the only party that was eventually allowed to negotiate with the city, and received 20 acres of land. “This was one of the first times Native Americans got land from the United States government since the 19<sup>th</sup> century”, says Bleck.

“They’re trying to reclaim the land they see as theirs. It’s a civil rights movement of a sort, with similar rhetoric to the Black Panthers but with land at the center of the debate.” Bernie Whitebear, the leader of the United Indians of All Tribes (UIAT), the group that negotiated with municipal government for the land, borrowed many ideas from the Indians of All Tribes’ Occupation of Alcatraz that lasted 19 months from November 1969 to June 1971 before being forcibly ended by the U.S. government. The IAT believed that the Treaty of Fort Laramie signed in 1868 guaranteed that unused federal land be returned to the Native peoples from which it had been taken.

Through the protests and an outpouring of public support, Whitebear was able to secure negotiations. He continued to use nationalist rhetoric, but “his willingness to negotiate through institutional channels is what made him successful,” says Bleck. “He was also very well connected within the city.”

The United Indians of All Tribes have put the land to good use, founding the Daybreak Star Cultural Center in 1977. It boasts an art gallery, childcare services, head start and senior programs. Whitebear wanted to build a People’s Lodge that would have been a much larger project than the structure currently in place, but died of colon cancer in 2000, and the project has been stalled ever since. “He was a powerful leader with many connections,” says Bleck, “so even though the center continues they have not been anywhere near as financially successful since his death.”

Bleck conducted most of her research within the University of Washington Special Collections and the Seattle Municipal Archive. Daybreak Star also has an archive of Whitebear’s personal papers, but it is not accessible to the public. She interviewed several participants of the occupations, and even though she will not be able to use the interviews in her thesis says, “it was good to know people were interested. It’s an important issue for Native Americans but also for Seattle because it set a precedent for how the city deals with different minority groups and prioritizes resource allocation. The government will release more land and the city will have to deal with the problem again.”