---
title: 'Two Math Professors Hired: A Look Inside the Professor Selection Process'
authors: 
  - "Brendan Sorrell"
type: post
date: 2013-04-26T00:12:35+00:00
url: /2013/04/25/two-math-professors-hired-a-look-inside-the-professor-selection-process/
categories:
  - Front Page
  - News

---
The Mathematics Department received 770 applications for two tenure-track professors in pure mathematics. Angélica Osorno,  who received her Ph.D. from MIT and currently teaches at University of Chicago will teach at Reed in the fall semester, and in the spring of 2014 she will participate in a semester-long program in algebraic topology, her specialty, at the Mathematical Sciences Research Institute (MSRI) in Berkeley, California. Kyle Ormsby, who received his Ph.D. from the University of Michigan and currently teaches at MIT, will join the department in the fall of 2014 after completing work from previous research grants and at MSRI.

As the student body enjoyed a six-week break this winter, members of the mathematics department were busy looking over the hundreds of applications, paring the list down, and meeting the top 35 candidates for 20-minute interviews. The selection process continued over this semester, and six candidates were invited for a campus visit to give a talk and meet with faculty and students.

Typically a search committee for a new faculty member in a particular department is made up of five professors; three from the department that is conducting the search, one from an allied field, and another from the Committee for Advancement and Tenure (CAT). “Professors serve on many different search committees representing the school as a control,” says Jones. “Departments don’t make decisions,” says Jones, “but give recommendations to CAT for approval.”

Reading more than 700 files takes a lot of time. Even with a fourth member from the Mathematics Department serving on the committee, there were so many applications that the committee solicited help from other members of the department to make sure all applications received adequate attention. All six members of the committee then reviewed around 40 applications that were considered to be the most exceptional. Ann Delehanty, a professor from the French Department, served on the committee as the member of CAT.  “She was very helpful in assessing how candidates might fulfill their teaching role, how their scholarship would fit in the department and the college, and she was very involved throughout the process,” says Mathematics Professor Irena Swanson. “There was one candidate in particular that all the mathematics professors thought would be spectacular, but Ann saw something that made her say ‘you’re going to be disappointed.’ She was right.”

Members of the committee were looking for particular attributes that would have better prepared the candidates for teaching at Reed. “Not every Ph.D. can teach the Math 112 course,” says Swanson, “and some might not be used to the rigor of Reed or prepared for Reed students’ outside-the-box questions.” Ability to advise theses also comes into account, as all professors should be able to “be part of the creative process and bring students to the level they are capable of,” says Swanson.  In all searches, the emphasis is on the ability to teach, although professors’ scholarly research is important as well. “We want new members to genuinely care about teaching, but to continue to pursue further scholarship,” says Swanson.

Candidates are assessed through campus visits, during which the candidates meet with students, all members of the department, all committee members, the Dean of Faculty, and the President. “At the end of all visits we solicit opinions from all students and faculty that interacted with the candidates,” says Swanson, “and assess how they interact with the community, and we value student input very highly in that regard.” Following campus visits, the committee makes final assessments and recommends candidates to the Committee on Advancement and Tenure. In the case of the pure mathematics search, CAT approved the two choices by the search committee, and both candidates have accepted. Angélica Osorno, who received her Ph.D. from MIT and currently teaches at University of Chicago, will teach at Reed in the fall semester, and in the spring of 2014 she will participate in a semester-long program in algebraic topology, her specialty, at the Mathematical Sciences Research Institute (MSRI) in Berkeley, California. Kyle Ormsby, who received is Ph.D. from the University of Michigan and currently teaches at MIT, will join the Mathematics faculty in the 2014-2015 school year after completing work from previous research grants and at MSRI.