---
title: 'ADSAPR Position: What Comes Next?'
author: Rebecca Turley
type: post
date: -001-11-30T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=2599
categories:
  - Left Sidebar
  - Opinion

---
Many of you will have heard by now that Jyl Shaffer, Reed’s first Assistant Dean of Sexual Assault Prevention and Response (ADSAPR), left Reed in mid-August to pursue a great professional opportunity at the University of Houston. Jyl’s departure represents a significant loss for Reed, as well as an opportunity, and in fact an obligation, to move forward.

As Jyl would be the first to say, no one individual, not even someone with Jyl’s experience, expertise, and passion, can do this critically important work alone.  We are indeed fortunate that Jyl was so successful not only in helping us move forward in our policy and programmatic efforts, but also in assembling a team of people who continue to work collaboratively and productively even in her absence. We will inevitably rely upon the active engagement of a broad coalition of students, staff and faculty in order to continue the work that Jyl started.  In recognition of this fact, I write to solicit your help in planning the future of Reed’s SAPR efforts.

Reed has a profound moral obligation, as well as significant legal responsibilities to ensure that our campus is an inclusive and safe environment, free from discrimination.  In particular, the College must comply with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972.  Title IX was enacted such that, &#8220;No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving federal financial assistance.&#8221;

We must provide relevant, accurate and meaningful education about consent, bystander intervention and healthy relationships in order to prevent problems before they occur. We must do what we can to remove barriers that might otherwise prevent a member of our community from reporting any form of sexual harassment, in particular sexual assault.  And we are legally and honor bound to respond efficiently and effectively when we receive a report, to investigate and intervene in order to stop the misconduct, alleviate harm, and mitigate the risk that any such harm will recur.

We knew when Jyl began at Reed almost two years ago that her role would evolve as a function of the very progress she helped to facilitate.  Based on Jyl’s input, and from the perspective of some students and faculty who have already weighed in, there is substantial support for focusing the next iteration of the ADSAPR role on students in general (as opposed to faculty and staff), and on prevention and survivor advocacy in particular.  This could involve direct work with students, as well as collaboration with student advocates.

Another possibility (also one of Jyl’s suggestions) is for the ADSAPR to work out of the Health and Counseling Center (HCC), in order to provide for some confidentiality privileges.  We remain open to such an arrangement, and there are certainly some benefits associated with this approach.  There are also potentially significant logistical issues associated with this option, not the least of which is that it would necessitate hiring a licensed clinician.  In addition, there is a risk that the ADSAPR’s effectiveness would be limited if the ADSAPR were unable to collaborate outside the confines of confidentiality.  Again, we welcome your feedback regarding the pros and cons of such an arrangement.  Perhaps it makes more sense for the ADSAPR to serve as an advisor to the HCC and for the HCC to develop internal sexual assault expertise over time.

Whatever the eventual reporting structure and programmatic emphasis, if we keep the ADSAPR focused on the student body, substantial work will remain for the College, including faculty and staff training, Title IX compliance, and the like.

What do you think the focus should be for the next ADSAPR? What qualities are we looking for? What committee or group do you think should be charged with Reed’s remaining sexual assault and prevention responsibilities? We welcome your input via email (&#x73;&#x74;&#x6f;&#x70;&#x73;&#x65;&#x78;&#x75;&#x61;&#x6c;&#x61;&#x73;&#x73;&#x61;&#x75;&#x6c;&#x74;&#x40;<span class="oe_displaynone">null</span>&#x72;&#x65;&#x65;&#x64;&#x2e;&#x65;&#x64;&#x75;).

As we collect community input, a group including faculty, staff from Community Safety and the HCC, and students from Honor Council, the Reed Student Advocates, the Judicial Board and Senate will join Bruce Smith in a discussion about the ADSAPR role.  This group will solicit input from the community and make recommendations regarding the priorities of the ADSAPR position, hopefully in early October.

The goal of this process is to collect and take into consideration a broad range of community input, and to do so as efficiently as possible in order to initiate a search sometime in October.  In the meantime, it is critically important that every member of the Reed community continue to have unfettered access to a range of reliable options for sexual misconduct reporting and response.  Please refer to our website (https://www.reed.edu/sexual_assault/index.html) which provides contact information for on and off-campus resources, including Reed’s Title IX Coordinator.  If you need help and aren’t sure whether you want to make a formal report, please consider accessing one of the confidential resources listed. In addition, students seeking peer support from highly trained Reed students and alumni who volunteer their services through a confidential and anonymous voicemail-and-call-back-system, please contact the Reed Student Advocates at 503-847-9772.

I look forward to hearing from you, and thank you in advance for whatever you are willing and able to do to keep Reed free from sexual assault.