---
title: 'Letter: Policy, Honor, and Olde Reed'
authors: 
  - Staff
type: post
date: 2013-04-19T05:01:13+00:00
excerpt: "I found last Thursday's Reed Union quite frustrating, as I often do with these kinds of discussions, though not for exactly the same reasons as I have in the past. During the pre-discussion statements by the panel, we were told repeatedly by several panel members, SB President Ari Galper included, that the reason for the erosion of student body autonomy over the last 10-15 years is the collective failure of the student body to govern itself responsibly. The 50% attrition rate of the 1980's, the heroin deaths, the suicides, all have been at the heart of the constant, incremental expansion of policy and bureaucracy. We should be thankful for these changes, we were told; early adulthood is a dangerous time of transition, and part of the College's job is to hold our hands through this transition."
url: /2013/04/18/letter-policy-honor-and-olde-reed/
categories:
  - Left Sidebar
  - Opinion

---
_**By Katelyn Best**_

I found last Thursday&#8217;s Reed Union quite frustrating, as I often do with these kinds of discussions, though not for exactly the same reasons as I have in the past. During the pre-discussion statements by the panel, we were told repeatedly by several panel members, SB President Ari Galper included, that the reason for the erosion of student body autonomy over the last 10-15 years is the collective failure of the student body to govern itself responsibly. The 50% attrition rate of the 1980&#8217;s, the heroin deaths, the suicides, all have been at the heart of the constant, incremental expansion of policy and bureaucracy. We should be thankful for these changes, we were told; early adulthood is a dangerous time of transition, and part of the College&#8217;s job is to hold our hands through this transition.

Yet the discrepancy between the kinds of changes to student body autonomy that Galper and others were referring to and the actual reason for the Reed Union was glaring. I don&#8217;t think many Reedies today would argue that institutions like Academic Support, the HCC, and, to some extent at least, Community Safety—which clearly exist as direct responses to the very real issues listed above—represent particularly troubling examples of overreach by the administration. The elephant in the room was John Kroger&#8217;s decision to unilaterally intervene in a decision making process that has for many years been the purview of the student body: the approval and funding of Paideia classes.

What always frustrates me about these community discussions is that they are invariably just talk. Community members taking all positions (or, more often, one of two) on an issue hash things over ad nauseam, people applaud when they hear something they agree with, and we&#8217;re supposed to go home feeling like we&#8217;ve participated in the Honor Process in some significant way, and that we can forget about the problem. At the Senate meeting addressing Kroger&#8217;s actions during Paideia, Mike Brody gave the Reed community a hearty congratulations, saying that if such discussions represented a failure of the Honor Principle, he was optimistic for its future. Don&#8217;t get me wrong; community discussions are an important aspect of what we do at Reed, and a necessary, if not always sufficient response to the periodic crises the community experiences. However, though these discussions must happen, and as much respect as I have for Brody, I think he&#8217;s wrong here. What felt more than frustrating—slightly sinister, perhaps?—about both Thursday&#8217;s discussion and that Senate meeting was the sense I get that these community forums increasingly occur to make the student body feel like we have some power over Reed&#8217;s future, when in reality we don&#8217;t.

The take-home of the Paideiagate Senate meeting, as far as I could tell, was essentially that Kroger would not have acted any differently given a second chance. I understood that he would have talked to the students whose classes he was canceling before canceling their classes. I&#8217;m not sure what that would have accomplished. But hey! We talked about it, and some people told him in strong words that they disagreed with his actions and you must be new here because that is not how we do things at Reed. So we could all feel like we did something good, even if our president still believes his job is to act as Nanny in Chief, justifying his actions through hollow platitudes like &#8220;health and safety issues&#8221; and &#8220;unregulated depressants&#8221; rather than engaging with us like fellow adults.

It seems to me that this pattern of superficial engagement with the administration over contentious issues like Paideiagate ****being invoked as part of Reed&#8217;s tradition of critical, honest discourse on all areas of life, both academic and non-academic, is only one piece of a larger pattern. Increasingly, the Honor Principle is invoked to grant legitimacy to any new policy, without further justification of how that policy might relate to Honor. It is dishonorable to smoke in the Pool Hall. It is dishonorable to give alcohol to minors. It is dishonorable to educate your peers on harm reduction. Note that I am not taking a personal stance on whether any of these things is actually dishonorable; all I&#8217;m saying is that if we are honest with ourselves we have to acknowledge that these are first and foremost issues of legality, not Honor.

I understand that Reed can&#8217;t shut its eyes and pretend the law doesn&#8217;t exist, or that figures like the Attorney General don&#8217;t have a vested interest in cracking down on the laissez-faire attitude toward student life that used to prevail here. I understand that when Community Safety discovers students selling large quantities of illegal drugs on school property it can&#8217;t turn a blind eye, as absolutely shitty as it is to see two of our peers go to jail. I understand, though it breaks my heart, that a community governed solely by Honor cannot exist within a society governed by laws and regulations. I only wish the administration wouldn&#8217;t pretend that its responses to these controversies have anything to do with the Honor Principle.

On Thursday night, the moment that received the most applause was when Peter Steinberger brought up Reed&#8217;s well-known refusal to participate in the _US News and World Report_ college rankings. This came amid talk about the current trend in American higher education to manage colleges like businesses. We&#8217;re under a lot of pressure, apparently, to follow this trend. If Reed wants to compete in the Higher Education Marketplace, it needs to clean up its image. This idea—that part of the trustees&#8217; and the administration&#8217;s motivation for the changes we&#8217;re experiencing is not legal pressure but pressure to sell ourselves to rich parents with overachieving, well-rounded children—is disgusting to me, as I believe it is to most Reedies based on that moment of applause Thursday night.

It&#8217;s a truism that Olde Reed died after every Reedie&#8217;s freshman year. Indeed, as the world changes, Olde Reed has been dying, inevitably, for a hundred years. Some aspects of Reed&#8217;s culture can be parted with without destroying the core of what Reed is. Others cannot. If we begin treating education as a commodity to be marketed, rather than something to be pursued and cherished for its own sake, and if for that reason we replace the Honor Principle with a litany of policies, then we will have killed not just Olde Reed but Reed itself.