---
title: An Open Letter to the Reed College Community
author: Staff
type: post
date: 2013-09-27T22:38:40+00:00
url: /2013/09/27/2660/
categories:
  - Front Page
  - Opinion

---
_**By Jack N. Levy &#8217;65**_

I am writing with a question about how the Honor Code should apply to members of the Reed College community;  in this case my question specifically relates to an alumnus who was honored as a keynote speaker at the college&#8217;s centennial celebration,  and more recently elected to the Board of Trustees.  This alumnus, Richard Danzig, was a classmate of mine (class of 1965). I did not know him well.  I understand from other classmates that he was (and presumably is) a very bright and highly competitive person.  He has served as Secretary of the Navy and as a consultant on biowarfare to the Pentagon and to the Department of Homeland Security. Clearly, he is a &#8220;high profile alumnus&#8221; by the standards of my generation.

In its May 19, 2013 (Sunday) issue, the Los Angeles Times ran an extensive article on what appears to be a case of &#8220;influence peddling&#8221; by Mr. Danzig. The Times article claims that Mr. Danzig persuaded the (federal) government to invest over 300 million dollars in a startup company for which he served on the board of directors.  Again according to the Times, Mr. Danzig was paid over a million dollars for his efforts on behalf of the company,  Human Genome Sciences, Inc.  The full text of the article may be found by a Google search for &#8220;Richard Danzig Los Angeles Times.&#8221;

From my perspective, Mr. Danzig&#8217;s activities,  as described in the Times article,  represent a major breech of ethics.  I have to wonder why a person who allegedly behaved in this manner is repeatedly honored by Reed College, particularly in light of The Honor Code and the pride we of the Reed College community presumably take in adherence to the principles that The Code engenders.

I can think of several possible explanations.  All of these imagined explanations raise further questions for me.  For example (1) Are the &#8220;facts&#8221; presented in the Los Angeles Times article inaccurate, and has Mr. Danzig been wrongly accused?  (2) Was the College unaware of Mr. Danzig&#8217;s role in the matter reported by the Los Angeles Times at the time it bestowed the above honors on him?  If so, then does the vetting process for such honors, particularly election to the Board of Trustees, merit review?  (3) If knowledge of Mr. Danzig&#8217;s alleged wrongdoing reached Reed College too late, are the honors bestowed now considered a &#8220;fait accompli&#8221;? If so, is there no process for reevaluating the suitability a sitting member of the Board of Trustees; should there be such a process if there is not already one in place?   (4) Is Mr. Danzig considered &#8220;too big to fail&#8221;, at a personal level  and with respect to Reed College,  and if so are the alleged wrongdoings (and possibly those of other trustees, administrators, major benefactors, etc.) to be covered up and/or ignored? (5) Does the College feel that such behaviors have no bearing on whether a person should be

honored by the College, or elected to the Board of Trustees?  If not, why not, given that students and other community members would presumably be expected to desist from such behaviors under the Honor Code, and that we might wish those honored by the college to serve as role models?

Given the allegations leveled by the Los Angeles Times, I believe that the Reed College community deserves some explanation.  Probably Mr. Danzig should be given an opportunity to inform the college community of his &#8220;position&#8221; in this matter.  But, beyond that, I think the community deserves a &#8220;third party&#8221; explanation, perhaps from the Board of Trustees and/or from President Kroger and/or from the Honor Council.

I hope other members of the Reed College community will comment on this. Am I the only one who feels that the ethics (or lack thereof) of those who represent and guide the College are tremendously important?