---
title: 'Measure 88: Another roadblock to reform'
authors: 
  - "Staff"
type: post
date: -001-11-30T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=3958
categories:
  - Uncategorized

---
When President Obama entered office he went in with a pledge to reform the nation’s immigration system, an issue that was a focus throughout both the Democratic and Republican parties in 2008.

Obama particularly championed immigration reform during his first campaign stating that, “I cannot guarantee that it is going to be within the first 100 days. But what I can guarantee is that we will have in the first year an immigration bill that I strongly support and that I’m promoting.”  The 2009 reintroduction of the DREAM Act into Congress could have been the advertisement for reform that Obama promised, but unfortunately the proposal has so far stalled.

For years, while the DREAM act was being halted, there were no major moves by the President that would directly act in favor of reform. It was only a few months before the 2012 elections, when polls showed less support from all voters including minorities, that Obama acted. In came the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA): a promotion for both immigration reform and his presidential campaign. Through an executive order, DACA came to life and provided the chance for immigrants that arrived as children to receive a two-year deportation deferment along with a work permit.

But since then any progress towards national immigration reform has faltered, and it was only through the actions of individual states that any changes were made.

Oregon was one of these states, having passed a variation of the DREAM Act that extended healthcare benefits to migrant children. Perhaps it was with that previous fact in mind that many put their hopes on Oregon Ballot Measure 88 this past election.

Measure 88 would have allowed for illegal immigrants to be issued driver cards by the DMV after passing both the written and behind-the-wheel tests, provide proof of residence of at least 1 year in Oregon and provide proof of identity and date of birth.

While the measure did not address issues such as deportation or access to student aid, it was a step in the right direction during a time where no progress was being made.

Unfortunately, it was voted down in an overwhelming decision.

The concerns of many opponents of the legislation included the worry that the measure would cause an increase of illegal immigration to Oregon and that the no background check would be required in order to receive a driver’s card, allowing for criminals to acquire one as well.

While those concerns were valid, the benefits of Measure 88 are less assumptive. First and foremost, road safety would have improved due to the simple fact that more drivers would have known the rules of the road. Theoretically, this also would have meant more insured drivers. The fee structure also meant that the measure would have paid for itself and brought revenue to Oregon. Passing Measure 88 would have had concrete, beneficial results that any person can logically arrive to.

So why did so many vote against a piece of legislation that would have had clear and visible results? Are Oregonians just racist bigots?

Probably not.

The decision of Oregon voters reflects the attitude that has existed throughout the nation concerning immigration reform: there are other things to be done that concern the average citizen.

Obama’s promise of immigration reform was not delivered within his first couple of years in office due both to his extensive global travel in an attempt to redefine America’s image and internal political turmoil as the Tea Party took the House of Representative by storm in 2010. The next year was marked by the Arab Spring, certainly a test of American foreign policy which brought into scrutiny domestic issues such as “class warfare” that birthed the Occupy Movement.

Immigration reform did not come back into light until the 2012 Presidential Race kicked into gear. And once the incumbent secured his position, the push towards immigration reform began to grind to a halt once again. It is only now that Republicans have control of both House and Senate that the President is once again making hasty moves towards enacting some sort of reform before it becomes impossible to do so in the coming year.

Perhaps the truth of the matter is that immigration reform makes only for tasty bait. When there is an important election, the faces of migrant children are printed onto posters and stuck on every wall in sight. Once that time passes, it is kicked back under the rug until the issue is rung out for more votes. In the mean time, it is more urgent to fight organizations named with catchy acronyms and to legalize the marijuanas.

The average Oregon voter probably finds that they are not directly affected by a piece of legislation such as Measure 88. If they can vote they are most likely licensed, natural born citizens that are not personally attached to the issue. When they hear the phrase “illegal immigrants” chances are thoughts of hard-working folk do not come to mind. On the other hand, measures that legalize marijuana or amend the state constitution to equally protect all sexes from discriminatory laws are relevant to all. Most people identify with a sex and many of those people blow doja. Not everyone lives in fear of being deported if they are pulled over on a routine traffic stop, which could mean leaving behind a family, the members of which have few means of supporting themselves.

Extensive immigration reform has not happened because it does not impact enough people. Certain states with both left-leaning tendencies and historically high numbers of migrants have made moves to improve their situations. But unfortunately, in Oregon and throughout most of the nation, there are other issues that have taken precedence with most voters and politicians, and so will receive more attention.

There is no prescribed method to ensure the installation of extensive, national immigration reform. But until something finally happens, the issue will remain as a lure that comes up every few years until it has been fully spent.