---
title: Everyone is Having a Shittier Time Than You
authors: 
  - "Rebecca Turley"
type: post
date: -001-11-30T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=3525
categories:
  - Uncategorized

---
Nothing like a broken heart to propel you to do something you wouldn&#8217;t do in the first place. Some people turn to cheap gourmet, cheaper booze, or sulking in front of a mediocre television show. I did all of the above, except on top of that I decided to live my dream of being a stand-up comedian.

After all I had nothing to lose.

Having done comedy shows at Reed, it didn&#8217;t seem to be something outside of my comfort zone. One of my closest friends accompanied me to Helium Comedy Club, the premier comedy club of Portland. It seemed like things were starting off well, perhaps because we jaywalked in front of a cop and he simply ignored us. That was a sign from the universe that even the law couldn’t stop me from being funny.

I signed up and waited in the lobby. I didn&#8217;t really prepare anything, because I know all the stories I say on stage by heart. So I just lounged around. Watched two episodes of _The Mindy Project_ and read an article about Véra Nabokov in _The Atlantic_. There were a couple of comedians already waiting in the lobby. Some of them were pacing back and forth, others were talking to themselves. Had this not been a lobby at a comedy club, a spectator would have thought it was a psych ward.

Neruda said laughter is the language of the soul, and well I spoke it. At least it seemed like I did.

As I was waiting for the doors to open, I was pestered by a wide-eyed, manic man named Luna. I didn’t want to make small chat. I just wanted to be. I awkwardly smiled at all his gestures hoping he wouldn’t be in the line-up. To my luck he was the third comedian, and I was the fourth. We had to wait in a small room with three other comedians who were sharing their aspirations with me. It was nerve-wracking to say the least, especially since this Luna guy kept saying he was going to sweep me off my feet with flowers and nice dinners. I like these grand gestures of love, but not with this particular fellow.

As I waited for this guy to finish his set, I was in a small space connecting the waiting room and the stage. I was waiting frantically with the man that presents every comedian. “What if I suck?” What is this red light everyone speaks of? How much time do I have?” I asked all these questions, but he just nodded. Before he could answer my questions, he welcomed me to the stage. I looked at the crowd. Peered back at my friend. Then looked at the crowd again. And I went on with my jokes. People laughed. A man in front of me basically choked on his food. Was I going to help him? No. I don’t know CPR.

There was applause. It went well. I sat down next to my friend and we continued watching the remaining 15 comedians.

The line-up included a man with cancer, another man that was convinced everyone in Portland was racist, an unemployed Californian, a woman who recently lost 100 pounds. These were the people up on stage making jokes. They had three entire minutes to make the muscles in our faces produce smirks and smiles. They were my people.

This comfort led me to try comedy once again but in a downtown club. An experienced comedian advised me that “At Helium Comedy Club people laugh. At Brody Theater, people cry.” I didn’t know what that meant until I took the stage.

This small theater was something to behold. It was dimly lit, smelled of gin and cigarettes, and was only being occupied by 15 souls. There were classic science fiction posters all over the walls, like &#8220;Attack of the 50 Foot Woman,&#8221; &#8220;The Day the Earth Stood Still,&#8221; . . . frankly I began to worry that reality was becoming more unnerving than any science fiction depicted on the walls.

I ordered fries and a coke. Was calm as could be, until I saw that perhaps the laughs weren&#8217;t cheap here. They had to be bought, with a currency no one knew about. There was a chuckle here and there, but the crowd was unmoved. I thought my naive, yet overzealous exterior would somehow be an exception to their critical perception of comedy. How could they not laugh at the time I got into an unmarked taxi in Portland? They didn&#8217;t laugh. There were 8 punch lines. And they only laughed at one and a half of them. At one point it seemed as if they retracted their collective laughter. I looked at the light bulb above me for a couple of seconds; could see the veins of my eyes. My speech became faster and faster that soon enough I was done with my set without knowing it.

I suddenly got the urge to throw up. Perhaps I was puking because the five-dollar fries didn&#8217;t meet my expectations, or the free water tasted like Clorox. Those would have been easy explanations. But it wasn&#8217;t that. There I was on my knees, staring at a vinyl record case of &#8220;That&#8217;ll be the Day, Buddy Holly.&#8221; I still felt horrible, but I stopped feeling alone. I was comforted by Buddy Holly&#8217;s gray suit, smug wide toothed smile, and a gaze that traveled for miles. He was looking past the restroom. Past the comedy club I failed to impress. He was telling me with his gaze that perhaps there is much to look forward to than this apparent failure.

I picked myself up. Cried to the bus stop, and cried on the bus. And continued to do so until I got home. I was soon greeted by my best friends, and my tears dissolved with the scent of curry.

That night I was still able to make them laugh. And make myself laugh. So perhaps the dream of comedy is still alive for me. And for every other individual that strives to make sense of the nonsense that is life. I’m having a shittier time than everyone, and everyone is having a shittier time than me. And well within this paradigm is a resolution we call comedy.