---
title: 'Record Breaking Profits and New President Announced at “Albertsons #565” Retreat Event'
authors: 
  - "Staff"
type: post
date: -001-11-30T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=3430
categories:
  - Features
  - Top Stories

---
The Albertsons Retreat in Kilauea, HI culminated in the _Albertsons #565_ variety show on Wednesday night, where host Armani Shrade-Wilson, the Albertsons Team Inclusivity Specialist, announced that Albertsons produced the highest supermarket profits in the last fiscal year. The announcement preceded the disclosure of the newest Albertsons President, Silly Puppy 69, whose stunning performance ended the show on a motivating note. Retreat attendees left the event feeling &#8220;synergized&#8221; and &#8220;inspired about the new future of Albertsons.&#8221;

The program consisted of eight uplifting acts, featuring an inclusive blend of members from several departments of the Albertsons team. Highlights included a two-part participatory meditative workshop led by Marcus from the Bureau of Technological Services and guru Champ Woodhill to improve core competency and wellness. Marcus led attendees in an auditory meditation, prefacing his instruction with, &#8220;Trigger warning if you&#8217;ve ever done acid.&#8221; From the stage, Marcus&#8217; chakra-inducing chants caused viewers to join him on the stage in universal meditative syncretism. Variety show facilitators provided supplemental meditative materials including confetti and a birdcage with live birds, ensuring the presence of the vital harmonious relationship between nature, pleasure, and introspection. Champ Woodhill then guided on-stage meditation participants in an imaginative, post-God Savasana exercise, streamlining synergy through a riveting dermis-piercing knife-based mind experiment.

The event included a rotating judges panel, into which event facilitators rotated new members every couple acts to support holistic analytics. Judges rated performances with scorecards using a brand rating system, ranging from Sears to Fiji Water. Judges displayed no hesitancy in making harsh judgments, but the arguably &#8220;subjective&#8221; rating system left little room for hurt feelings. Event facilitators also provided judges with hand sanitizer, assuring participants of judges&#8217; clean hands—the transparency tenet remains a core value of the Albertsons Project.

An avant-garde jazz band added to _Albertsons #565_, bringing the classics into today with revisions of &#8220;Take the &#8216;A&#8217; Train.&#8221; The juxtaposition of new jazz classics and an organic, robust PowerPoint presentation created a cross-platform mashup representative of a fundamental paradigmatic shift for Albertsons, one that reflects Albertsons&#8217; moving forward in its preparation for the Next Generation. An unidentified businessman surveilled the show from the event space&#8217;s loft, evolving through various iterations of nude corporate aesthetics from the comfort of the corporate toilet. When asked to comment, attendees speculated that the unidentified businessman emerged from Albertsons&#8217; recent milestone, the Come-to-Jesus moment of 2013.

The _Quest_ caught up with host Armani Shrade-Wilson for an exclusive interview about the success of the retreat and the future of Albertsons after the event:

**_Quest_**: How did the retreat go? How did you express the heart of your brand? The heart of your company?

**Shrade-Wilson**: I think we really moved on. We built some synergy, built some creative enterprises. That’s all you can really ask for.

**_Q_**: How do you feel that Silly Puppy 69 is going to be taking the company into the next few years?

**S-W**: I’m thinking animals are next. I’m not gonna be shy about that. I don’t think Albertsons is going to be shy about that. I refuse to be shy about that.

**_Q_**: So selling animals?

**S-W**: Do you think FACEBOOK WAS SHY?

**_Q_**: No, I don’t.

**S-W**: Do you think Albertsons [is] gonna be shy? FUCK NO.

**_Q_**: So animals, animals are the new brand pivot? You’re going to start selling live food?

**S-W**: We’re just gonna let people fuck ‘em.

**_Q_**: So every animal comes with a free fuck?

**S-W**: Free fuck?

**_Q_**: Free fuck.

**S-W**: Free fuck?

**_Q_**: Free fuck.

**S-W**: Free fuck per animal.

**_Q_**: So every time you shop at Albertsons you get a free fuck?

**S-W**: THAT is marketing I can get behind literally and figuratively. Put it in the Quest.

**_Q_**: Do you have a pull quote?

**S-W**: I’m gonna say, that to say “earnings” is to talk about business of yesteryear.

**_Q_**: So what is the business of tomorrow?

**S-W**: We’re talking about Creativity.

**_Q_**: Creativity?

**S-W**: Creativity.

**_Q_**: Creativity?

**S-W**: Art of capitalism.